ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADTRAN, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 (In thousands, except per share amounts)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADTRAN, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADTRAN, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADTRAN, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADTRAN, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADTRAN, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of ADTRAN®, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“ADTRAN” or the “Company”) have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations for reporting on Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Accordingly, certain information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements are not included herein.
The December 31, 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheet is derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state these interim statements have been recorded and are of a normal and recurring nature.
The results of operations for an interim period are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year.
The interim statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in ADTRAN’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed on February 28, 2019 with the SEC.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period.
Our more significant estimates include the obsolete and excess inventory reserves, warranty reserves, customer rebates, determination of the deferred and accrued revenue components of multiple element sales agreements, estimated costs to complete obligations associated with deferred and accrued revenue, estimated income tax provision and income tax contingencies, the fair value of stock-based compensation, impairment of goodwill, valuation and estimated lives of intangible assets, estimated pension liability, fair value of investments and the evaluation of other-than-temporary declines in the value of investments.
Actual amounts could differ significantly from these estimates.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, which changes the fair value measurement disclosure requirements of ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement.
The amendments in this ASU are the result of a broader disclosure project called, Concepts Statement No.
8 - Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting — Chapter 8, Notes to Financial Statements, which the FASB finalized on August 28, 2018.
The FASB used the guidance in the Concepts Statement to improve the effectiveness of ASC 820’s disclosure requirements.
ASU 2018-13 provides users of financial statements with information about assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position or disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
More specifically ASU 2018-13 requires disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs that are used to arrive at measures of fair value, including judgments and assumptions that are made in determining fair value.
In addition, ASU 2018-13 requires disclosures regarding the uncertainty in the fair value measurements as of the reporting date and how changes in fair value measurements affect performance and cash flows.
ASU 2018-13 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
We are currently evaluating the effect of ASU 2018-13, but do not expect it will have a material effect on our financial statement disclosures.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract.
ASU 2018-15 clarifies certain aspects of ASU 2015-05, Customer’s Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement.
Specifically, ASU 2018-15 aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementations costs incurred to develop or obtain internal use software.
ASU 2018-15 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
We are currently evaluating the effect of ASU 2018-15, but do not expect it will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
ASU 2016-02 requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and to disclose key information about the entity’s leasing arrangements.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, which clarified certain aspects of ASU 2016-02, as well as, ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provided for an optional transition method which allowed for the application of the legacy lease guidance, including its disclosure requirements, for the comparative periods presented in the year of adoption, with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new lease standard recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings as of the date of adoption.
In March 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-01, Leases (Topic 824) Codification Improvements, which removed the requirement for an entity to disclose in the interim periods after adoption, the effect of the change on income from continuing operations, net income, any other affected financial statement line item, and any affected per share amount.
For lessors, the new leasing standard requires leases to be classified as a sales-type, direct financing or operating leases.
These criteria focus on the transfer of control of the underlying lease asset.
This standard and related updates were effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company adopted the new standard on January 1, 2019, the effective date of our initial application, using the optional transition method.
The Company has elected to carry forward the legacy (ASC 840) disclosures for comparative periods and therefore, did not adjust the comparative period financial information prior to January 1, 2019.
In addition, the Company elected the package of practical expedients which allows for companies to not reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, not reassess historical lease classifications for expired or existing contracts and not reassess initial direct costs for existing leases.
Additionally, the Company elected the practical expedients which allow the use of hindsight when determining the lease term, the short-term lease recognition exemption and the option to not separate lease and non-lease components.
The adoption of this standard resulted in the recognition of a right-of-use asset and corresponding right-of-use liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheet of $10.3 million, mainly related to our operating leases for office space, automobiles and other equipment.
As a lessee, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Statement of Income or Statement of Cash Flow.
See Note 12 for additional information.
As a lessor, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Income or Statement of Cash Flow.
Prior to and after adoption, all of our leases in which we are the lessor were classified as sales-types leases.
Contingent liabilities with a fair value totaling $1.2 million were recognized at the acquisition date, the payments of which are dependent upon SmartRG achieving future revenue, EBIT or customer purchase order milestones during the first half of 2019.
The contingent payments are subject to arbitration and the final payouts, if applicable, are expected to occur during the third quarter of 2019.
The minimum and maximum potential payment under the total of the contingent liabilities ranges from no payment to $1.5 million.
As of March 31, 2019, the fair value of the contingent liability was re-assessed and was determined to be $1.2 million, based on the expected probable outcomes.
No change in fair value was recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
An escrow in the amount of $2.8 million was set up at the acquisition date, to fund post-closing working capital settlements and to indemnify the Company from any inaccuracy or breach of representations, warranties, covenants, agreements or obligations of the sellers.
The escrow is subject to arbitration with final settlement expected during the fourth quarter of 2020.
The minimum and maximum potential release of funds to the seller ranges from no payment to $2.8 million.
We recorded goodwill of $3.5 million as a result of this acquisition, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired.
We assessed the recognition and measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on historical and forecasted data for future periods and concluded that our valuation procedures and resulting measures were appropriate.
We recorded a bargain purchase gain, net of income taxes, of $11.3 million during the first quarter of 2018, which represents the difference between the fair value of the net assets acquired over the cash paid.
We assessed the recognition and measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on historical and forecasted data for future periods and concluded that our valuation procedures and resulting measures were appropriate.
The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information presents the financial results of the Company as if the acquisition of SmartRG and Sumitomo had occurred on January 1, 2018.
This unaudited supplemental pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition been completed on January 1, 2018, nor is it indicative of any future results.
Aside from revising the 2018 net income for the effect of the bargain purchase gain, there were no material, non-recurring adjustments to this unaudited pro forma information.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we incurred acquisition and integration related expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles of $1.3 million and $0.2 million respectively, related to these acquisitions.
The following is a description of the principal activities from which we generate our revenue by reportable segment.
Network Solutions Segment
Network Solutions includes hardware products and software-defined next-generation virtualized solutions used in service provider or business networks, as well as prior generation products.
The majority of the revenue from this segment is from hardware sales.
In certain transactions, we are also the lessor in sales-type lease arrangements for network equipment.
These arrangements typically include network equipment, network implementation services and maintenance services.
See Note 12 for additional information.
To complement our Network Solutions segment, we offer a complete portfolio of maintenance, network implementation and solutions integration and managed services, which include hosted cloud services and subscription services.
As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any significant performance obligations related to customer contracts that had an original expected duration of one year or more, other than maintenance services, which are satisfied over time.
$6.9 million of the outstanding unearned revenue balance at December 31, 2018 was recognized as revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Our effective tax rate increased from an expense of 15.1%, excluding the tax effect of the bargain purchase gain, in the three months ended March 31, 2018, to an expense of 28.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The increase in the effective tax rate between the two periods is primarily driven by the shift to profitability in the current quarter.
The Company continually reviews the adequacy of the valuation allowance and recognizes the benefits of deferred tax assets only as the reassessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be recognized in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740).
As of March 31, 2019, we had net deferred tax assets of $36.9 million.
Since management continues to assess the realization of these deferred tax assets and related valuation allowance(s), as such, we may release a portion of the valuation allowance or establish a new valuation allowance based on operations in the jurisdictions in which these assets arose.
Our assessment includes the evaluation of evidence, some of which requires significant judgment, including historical operating results, the evaluation of three-year cumulative income, future taxable income and tax planning strategies.
Should management determine a valuation allowance is needed in the future due to not being able to absorb loss carryforwards, it could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
5.
PENSION BENEFIT PLAN
We maintain a defined benefit pension plan covering employees in certain foreign countries.
The components of net periodic pension cost other than the service cost component are included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Service cost are included in cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Stock Options
At March 31, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested stock options was approximately $0.6 million, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 0.7 years.
All of the options above were issued at exercise prices that approximated fair market value at the date of grant.
At March 31, 2019, 2.4 million options were available for grant under the shareholder-approved plans.
The aggregate intrinsic values in the table above represent the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the difference between ADTRAN’s closing stock price on the last trading day of the quarter and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on March 31, 2019.
The amount of aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the fair market value of ADTRAN’s stock.
The total pre-tax intrinsic value of options exercised during the three months ended March 31, 2019 was zero.
The fair value of our stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes model.
The determination of the fair value of stock options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model is affected by our stock price, as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables that may have a significant impact on the fair value estimate.
The stock option pricing model requires the use of several assumptions that impact the fair value estimate.
These variables include, but are not limited to, the volatility of our stock price and employee exercise behaviors.
There were no stock options granted during the three months ended March 31, 2019 or 2018.
 PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock
The fair value of our PSUs with market conditions is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation valuation method.
The fair value of RSUs and restricted stock is equal to the closing price of our stock on the business day immediately preceding the grant date.
At March 31, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to the non-vested portion of market-based PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock was approximately $16.1 million, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 2.8 years.
In addition, there was $9.0 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to the unvested 2017 performance-based PSUs, which will be recognized over the remaining requisite service period of 0.8 years if achievement of the performance obligation becomes probable.
For the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018, no compensation expense was recognized related to these performance-based PSUs.
Debt Securities and Other Investments
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because some borrowers have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
Our investment policy provides limitations for issuer concentration, which limits, at the time of purchase, the concentration in any one issuer to 5% of the market value of our total investment portfolio.
At March 31, 2019, we held a $25.6 million restricted certificate of deposit that is carried at cost.
This investment serves as a collateral deposit against the principal amount outstanding under loans made to ADTRAN pursuant to an Alabama State Industrial Development Authority revenue bond (the Bond), which totaled $25.6 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the Bond using a level 2 valuation technique was approximately $25.5 million and $25.4 million, respectively, based on a debt security with a comparable interest rate and maturity and a Standard and Poor’s credit rating of AAA.
We have the right to set-off the balance of the Bond with the collateral deposit in order to reduce the balance of the indebtedness.
The Bond matures on January 1, 2020, and bears interest at the rate of 2% per annum.
In conjunction with this program, we are eligible to receive certain economic incentives from the state of Alabama that reduce the amount of payroll withholdings we are required to remit to the state for those employment positions that qualify under this program.
We are required to make payments in the amounts necessary to pay the interest on the amounts currently outstanding.
It is our intent to make annual principal payments in addition to the interest amounts that are due.
The restricted funds held as collateral against the principal amount of the Bond will be used to pay the outstanding principal and interest upon the Bond’s maturity on January 1, 2020.
Marketable Equity Securities
Our marketable equity securities consist of publicly traded stock, funds and certain other investments measured at fair value or cost (where appropriate).
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2016-01, which requires us to measure all equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method at fair value, with any changes in fair value recognized in net investment gain (loss).
Upon adoption, we reclassified $3.2 million of net unrealized gains related to marketable equity securities from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to retained earnings.
ASU 2016-01 also provides a measurement alternative for equity investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value in which investments can be recorded at cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for observable price changes for an identical or similar investment.
We elected to record our equity investment that does not have a readily determinable fair value using the measurement alternative method.
The carrying value of this investment was $3.4 million and $0 as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
As of March 31, 2019 and 2018, gross unrealized losses related to individual investments in a continuous loss position for twelve months or longer were not significant.
The fair value of our Level 2 securities is calculated using a weighted average market price for each security.
Market prices are obtained from a variety of industry standard data providers, security master files from large financial institutions, and other third-party sources.
These multiple market prices are used as inputs into a distribution-curve-based algorithm to determine the daily market value of each security.
8.
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
We participate in foreign exchange forward contracts in connection with the management of exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Cash Flow Hedges
Our cash flow hedging activities utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that movements in exchange rates will adversely affect the net cash flows resulting from the planned purchase of products from foreign suppliers.
Purchases of U.S. denominated inventory by our European subsidiary represent our primary exposure.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are not recognized in current operating results, but are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income.
Amounts related to cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income when the underlying hedged item impacts earnings.
This reclassification is recorded in cost of sales, the same line item of the Consolidated Statements of Income at which the effects of the hedged item are recorded.
Undesignated Hedges
We have certain customers and suppliers who are invoiced or pay in a non-functional currency.
Changes in the monetary exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as outstanding non-functional balances are revalued to the functional currency through profit and loss.
When appropriate, we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to help manage the volatility relating to these valuation exposures.
All changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments that do not qualify for, or are not designated for hedged accounting transactions, are recognized as other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.
Our derivative instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values.
Our derivative instruments are not subject to master netting arrangements and are not offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of March 31, 2019, we had no foreign exchange forward contracts.
We establish reserves for estimated excess, obsolete, or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated fair value of the inventory based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, raw materials reserves totaled $17.1 million and $17.6 million, respectively, and finished goods inventory reserves totaled $12.8 million and $12.4 million, respectively.
We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each year and between annual evaluations if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying amount.
We have elected to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill is assigned is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step impairment test.
If we determine that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step impairment test will be performed.
Based on the results of our qualitative assessment in 2018, we concluded that it was not necessary to perform the two-step impairment test.
Intangible assets include intangibles acquired in conjunction with several acquisitions since 2011, with the most recent being SmartRG, Inc. in November 2018 and SEI’s North American EPON business and technology license and OEM supply agreement with SEI in March 2018.
Amortization expense was $1.3 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 respectively.
Operating Lease Arrangements
We have operating leases for office space, automobiles, and other equipment in the United States and in various international locations in which we do business.
We also have other contracts such as, manufacturing agreements and service agreements, which we review to determine if they contain an embedded lease.
We specifically review these other contracts to determine whether we have the right to substantially all of the economic benefit from the use of any specified assets or the right to direct the use of any specified assets, either of which would indicate the existence of a lease.
As of March 31, 2019, our leases have remaining lease terms of one month to six years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 3 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 3 months.
For those leases that are reasonably assured to be renewed, we have included the option to extend as part of our right of use asset and right of use liability included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet and lease expense for these leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease expense related to these short-term leases was $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, and is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Consolidated Statement of Income.
For lease agreements entered into or reassessed after the adoption of Topic 842, we elected the practical expedient which allows us to not separate lease and non-lease components.
None of our lease agreements contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants.
Operating lease payments include $1.2 million related to options to extend lease terms that are reasonably certain of being exercised and there are no legally binding leases that have not yet commenced.
Certain renewal options were subsequently determined to not be reasonably assured of renewal upon adoption of the new lease standard.
Our leases do not provide an implicit borrowing rate and therefore we use an incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
We used the incremental borrowing rate on January 1, 2019, for operating leases that commenced on or prior to that date.
The incremental borrowing rate was determined on a portfolio basis by grouping leases with similar terms as well as grouping leases based on a U.S. dollar or Euro functional currency.
The actual rate is then determined based on a credit spread over LIBOR as well as the Bloomberg Curve Matrix for the U.S. Communications section.
Sales-Type Lease Arrangements
A significant portion of these future minimum lease payments relates to one of our customers who filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in February 2019.
In March 2019, we reached an agreement with this customer and they continue to make payments as outlined in the lease agreements.
Therefore, we believe there is no potential risk of uncollectibility related to these outstanding balances.
Stock Repurchase Program
Since 1997, our Board of Directors has approved multiple share repurchase programs that have authorized open market repurchase transactions of our common stock, which are implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we repurchased 13,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $14.06 per share.
As of March 31, 2019, we have the authority to purchase an additional 2.5 million shares of our common stock under the current authorization of up to 5.0 million shares.
Other Comprehensive Income
Other comprehensive income consists of unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities; reclassification adjustments for amounts included in net income related to impairments of available-for-sale debt securities, realized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities, realized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges, amortization of actuarial gains (losses) related to our defined benefit plan, defined benefit plan adjustments, and foreign currency translation adjustments.
With the adoption of ASU 2018-02, the stranded tax effects related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 were reclassified to retained earnings.
See Note 1.
With the adoption of ASU 2016-01, the unrealized gains on our equity investments were reclassified to retained earnings.
Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost.
See Note 5.
Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost.
See Note 5.
14.
EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, 2.9 million and 4.8 million stock options were outstanding but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share because the stock options’ exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common shares, therefore making them anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method.
We evaluate the performance of our segments based on gross profit; therefore, selling, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, interest and dividend income, interest expense, net investment gain (loss), other income (expense) and (provision) benefit for income taxes are reported on a company-wide, functional basis only.
There is no inter-segment revenue.
The following table presents information about the reported sales and gross profit of our reportable segments for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
We do not produce asset information by reportable segment; therefore, it is not reported.
Sales by Category
16.
LIABILITY FOR WARRANTY RETURNS
Our products generally include warranties of 90 days to five years for product defects.
We accrue for warranty returns at the time revenue is recognized based on our estimate of the cost to repair or replace the defective products.
We engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers.
Our products continue to become more complex in both size and functionality as many of our product offerings migrate from line card applications to total systems.
The increasing complexity of our products will cause warranty incidences, when they arise, to be more costly.
Our estimates regarding future warranty obligations may change due to product failure rates, material usage and other rework costs incurred in correcting a product failure.
In addition, from time to time, specific warranty accruals may be recorded if unforeseen problems arise.
Should our actual experience relative to these factors be worse than our estimates, we will be required to record additional warranty expense.
Alternatively, if we provide for more reserves than we require, we will reverse a portion of such provisions in future periods.
The liability for warranty obligations totaled $8.8 million and $8.6 million at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, which are included in accrued expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.
17.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including employment disputes, patent claims, disputes over contract agreements and other commercial disputes.
In some cases, claimants seek damages or other relief, such as royalty payments related to patents, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures.
Although the outcome of any claim or litigation can never be certain, it is our opinion that the outcome of all contingencies of which we are currently aware will not materially affect our business, operations, financial condition or cash flows.
We have committed to invest up to an aggregate of $7.9 million in two private equity funds, and we have contributed $8.4 million as of March 31, 2019, of which $7.7 million has been applied to these commitments.
In February 2019, we announced the restructuring of our workforce predominantly in Germany, which included the closure of the office location in Munich, Germany accompanied by relocation or severance benefits for the affected employees.
The restructuring is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2019.
The cumulative amount incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2019 related to this restructuring program is $1.8 million.
We also offered a voluntary early retirement offering to certain other employees which was announced to employees in March 2019.
As of March 31, 2019, we did not have sufficient information on which to estimate an additional liability associated with the voluntary early retirement program.
In January 2018, we announced an early retirement incentive program for employees that met certain requirements.
The cumulative amount incurred during the year ended December 31, 2018 related to this restructuring program was $7.3 million, of which $6.0 million was incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
We do not expect to incur any additional expenses related to this restructuring program.
On April 17, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per common share to be paid to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 2, 2019.
The payment date will be May 16, 2019.
The quarterly dividend payment will be approximately $4.3 million.
In July 2003, our Board of Directors elected to begin declaring quarterly dividends on our common stock considering the tax treatment of dividends and adequate levels of Company liquidity.
A voluntary early retirement offering was communicated to certain of our employees in Germany in March 2019.
These employees were given until April 28, 2019 to accept the early retirement offering.
Therefore, as of March 31, 2019, we did not have sufficient information on which to estimate the liability associated with this program.
The Company expects to incur approximately $0.8 million in restructuring expense during the second quarter of 2019 related to the early retirement program.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
A list of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There have been no material changes to our risk factors since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
