PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 



A list of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in the 2018 Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in the 2018 Form 10-K, other than as described in the risk factor below.  



We have identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could, if not remediated, materially adversely affect us. 



Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) requires us to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K an assessment by the Company’s management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent auditors to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404. Our compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. In addition, if management or our independent auditors are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 



As further described in Part I, Item 4 of this report and Part II, Item 9A of the 2018 Form 10-K, management has concluded that certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2018 and continued through June 30, 2019. Specifically, management has determined that controls were not effectively designed, documented, and maintained to verify that the existence of all inventories subject to our cycle count program were included and counted at the frequency required under the Company’s internal policies, and that the key reports and related data used to monitor the results of this program were not validated to ensure completeness and accuracy. Furthermore, management has determined that controls were not effectively designed and maintained over the determination of the estimated reserve for excess and obsolete inventory, including the review of significant inputs and assumptions used to determine our excess and obsolete inventory reserve, and to ensure the completeness and accuracy of key reports and related data used in the calculation of this reserve. Despite the existence of these material weaknesses, we believe that the consolidated financial statements included in this report (as well as in the 2018 Form 10-K and in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2019) present fairly, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the periods presented, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. However, these material weaknesses, if not remediated, could result in a misstatement of the Company’s future interim or annual consolidated financial statements and disclosures that would result in a material misstatement that would not be prevented or detected. 



Management has been working to further strengthen the Company’s internal controls relating to inventory. Specifically, the Company has begun redesigning and enhancing additional controls and procedures to ensure the completeness of our cycle count program and the completeness and accuracy of key reports and related data used to monitor the results of this cycle count program. Additionally, the Company has begun redesigning and implementing enhanced controls and procedures related to the review of significant inputs and assumptions used to determine our excess and obsolete inventory reserve, and to ensure the completeness and accuracy of key reports and related data used in the calculation of the excess and obsolete inventory reserve. The implementation of these measures is ongoing, and, while we believe that they will ultimately be effective in remediating the material weaknesses described above, our initiatives may not prove successful, and management may not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Furthermore, even if management were to reach such a conclusion, if our independent auditors are not satisfied with the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, or if the independent auditors interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then they in the future may decline to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting or may issue a report that is qualified. Any of these events could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively affect the price of our common stock. 





ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 







On July 14, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 5.0 million shares of our common stock (bringing the total shares authorized for repurchase since 1997 to 50.0 million). This authorization will be implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant. We currently have authorization to repurchase 2.5 million shares of our common stock under the current authorization of up to 5.0 million shares. 



ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION 



On July 17, 2019 (the “Separation Date”), Roger Shannon, who most recently served as the Company’s Vice President of Treasury and Corporate Development and who was identified as a “named executive officer” in the Company’s proxy statement for the 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, ended his employment with the Company. 



Mr. Shannon’s termination of employment was in accordance with a Separation Agreement and General Release entered into between the Company and Mr. Shannon on June 7, 2019, which became effective on June 15, 2019 and provided for Mr. Shannon’s termination of employment as of the Separation Date (the “Separation Agreement”). Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Mr. Shannon is subject to certain restrictive covenants, including non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions for a period of eighteen months following the Separation Date, as well as customary confidentiality and non-disparagement restrictions. As consideration for his execution of the Separation Agreement, Mr. Shannon received an aggregate lump sum payment of approximately $0.2 million, representing the equivalent of six months’ pay, less withholdings, and six months of insurance coverage premiums. Additionally, all of Mr. Shannon’s unvested restricted stock units vested, and the Company agreed to extend the expiration dates of his vested stock options to twelve months after the Separation Date. 



The foregoing description of the Separation Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Separation Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10 to this Form 10-Q and incorporated herein by reference. 





ITEM 6. EXHIBITS 



Exhibits. 







SIGNATURE 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 





