ADTRAN, Inc. 

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 

For the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 

Table of Contents 



CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of ADTRAN, Inc. (“ADTRAN”, the “Company”, “we”, “our” or “us”).
ADTRAN and its representatives may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this report, our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and other communications with our stockholders.
Any statement that does not directly relate to a historical or current fact is a forward-looking statement.
Generally, the words, “believe”, “expect”, “intend”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “will”, “may”, “could” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.
We caution you that any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could affect the accuracy of such statements.
The following are some of the risks that could affect our financial performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements: 

•  

Our operating results may fluctuate in future periods, which may adversely affect our stock price.
You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements because they speak only of our views as of the date that the statements were made.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of ADTRAN®, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“ADTRAN”, the “Company”, “we”, “our” or “us”) have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) applicable to interim financial information presented in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Accordingly, certain information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for complete financial statements are not included herein.
The December 31, 2018 Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet is derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state these interim statements have been recorded and are of a normal and recurring nature.
See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 3 of this report for a description of important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected results.
