ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADTRAN, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADTRAN, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADTRAN, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADTRAN, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADTRAN, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of ADTRAN®, Inc. and its subsidiaries (ADTRAN) have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations for reporting on Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Accordingly, certain information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements are not included herein.
The December 31, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet is derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state these interim statements have been recorded and are of a normal and recurring nature.
The results of operations for an interim period are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year.
The interim statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in ADTRAN’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed on February 23, 2018 with the SEC.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period.
Our more significant estimates include the obsolete and excess inventory reserves, warranty reserves, customer rebates, determination of the deferred revenue components of multiple element sales agreements, estimated costs to complete obligations associated with deferred revenues, estimated income tax provision and income tax contingencies, the fair value of stock-based compensation, impairment of goodwill, valuation and estimated lives of intangible assets, estimated pension liability, fair value of investments, and the evaluation of other-than-temporary declines in the value of investments.
Actual amounts could differ significantly from these estimates.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
ASU 2016-02 requires an entity to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and to disclose key information about the entity's leasing arrangements.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, which clarified certain aspects of ASU 2016-02, as well as, ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provides for an optional transition method that allows for the application of current legacy guidance, including its disclosure requirements, in the comparative periods presented in the year of adoption.
Otherwise, Topic 842 must be adopted by a modified retrospective method, with elective reliefs, which requires application of the new guidance for all periods presented.
The Company plans to use the optional transition method when adopting the new standard.
ASU 2016-02, ASU 2018-10 and ASU 2018-11 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
We anticipate the adoption of these ASUs will have a material increase in the assets and liabilities of our consolidated balance sheets; however, we do not believe adoption will have a material effect on our results of operations.
We believe the most significant effect relates to our accounting for operating leases for office space.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, which changes the fair value measurement disclosure requirements of ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement.
The amendments in this ASU are the result of a broader disclosure project called, Concepts Statement No.
8 - Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting — Chapter 8, Notes to Financial Statements, which the FASB finalized on August 28, 2018.
The FASB used the guidance in the Concepts Statement to improve the effectiveness of ASC 820’s disclosure requirements.
ASU 2018-13 provides users of financial statements with information about assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position or disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
More specifically ASU 2018-13 requires disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs that are used to arrive at measures of fair value, including judgments and assumptions that are made in determining fair value.
In addition, ASU 2018-13 requires disclosures regarding the uncertainty in the fair value measurements as of the reporting date and how changes in fair value measurements affect performance and cash flows.
ASU 2018-13 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
We are currently evaluating the effect of ASU 2018-13, but we do not expect it will have a material effect on our financial statement disclosures.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract.
ASU 2018-15 clarifies certain aspects of ASU 2015-05, Customer’s Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement.
Specifically, ASU 2018-15 aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementations costs incurred to develop or obtain internal use software.
ASU 2018-15 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
We are currently evaluating whether to early adopt, but we do not expect it will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
These ASUs primarily affected our network implementation service revenue performance obligations and contract costs.
We are using the “output method” to measure network implementation services progress, which 1) accelerates revenue recognition for certain performance obligations related to service revenue arrangements that were previously deferred until customer acceptance and 2) requires capitalization and amortization of the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as described below.
In connection with the adoption of the new revenue standard, effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 340-40, Other Assets and Deferred Costs – Contracts with Customers, with respect to capitalization and amortization of incremental costs of obtaining a contract.
As a result, certain costs of obtaining a contract, including sales commissions, will be capitalized, as the guidance requires the capitalization of all incremental costs incurred to obtain a contract with a customer that it would not have incurred if the contract had not been obtained, provided the costs are recoverable.
The primary effect was the capitalization of certain sales commissions for our extended maintenance and support contracts in excess of one year and amortization of those costs over the period that the related revenue is recognized.
We recorded a bargain purchase gain of $11.3 million during the first quarter of 2018, net of income taxes, which is subject to customary working capital adjustments between the parties.
The bargain purchase gain of $11.3 million represents the difference between the fair value of the net assets acquired over the cash paid.
SEI, an OEM supplier based in Japan, is the global market leader in EPON.
SEI’s Broadband Networks Division, through its SEL subsidiary, operated a North American EPON business that included sales, marketing, support, and region-specific engineering development.
The North American EPON market is primarily driven by the Tier 1 cable MSO operators and has developed more slowly than anticipated.
Through the transaction, SEI divested its North American EPON assets and established a relationship with ADTRAN.
The transfer of these assets to ADTRAN, which included key customer relationships and a required assumption by ADTRAN of relatively low incremental expenses, along with the value of the technology license and OEM supply agreement, resulted in the bargain purchase gain.
We have assessed the recognition and measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on historical and forecasted data for future periods and we have concluded that our valuation procedures and resulting measures were appropriate.
The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information presents the financial results as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2017.
This unaudited supplemental pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition been completed on January 1, 2017, nor is it indicative of any future results.
Aside from revising the 2017 and 2018 net income for the effect of the bargain purchase gain, there were no material, non-recurring adjustments to this unaudited pro forma information.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we incurred acquisition and integration related expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles of $0.7 million and $1.6 million, respectively, related to this acquisition.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services to a customer and as performance obligations under the terms of the contract are satisfied.
Generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of a product or service to the customer.
For transactions where there are multiple performance obligations, we account for individual products and services separately if they are distinct (if a product or service is separately identifiable from other items and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer).
The consideration, including any discounts, is allocated between separate products and services based on their stand-alone selling prices.
The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which we sell the separate products and services and are allocated based on each item’s relative value to the total value of the products and services in the arrangement.
For items that are not sold separately, we estimate stand-alone selling prices primarily using the “expected cost plus a margin” approach.
Payment terms are typically 30 days.
Shipping fees are recorded as revenue and the related cost is included in cost of sales.
Sales, value-added, and other taxes collected concurrently with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue.
Costs of obtaining a contract are capitalized and amortized over the period that the related revenue is recognized if greater than one year.
We have elected to apply the practical expedient related to the incremental costs of obtaining contracts and recognize those costs as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets is one year or less.
These costs are included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
Capitalized costs with an amortization period greater than one year were immaterial.
The following is a description of the principal activities from which we generate our revenue by reportable segment.
Network Solutions Segment
Network Solutions includes hardware products and next-generation virtualized solutions used in service provider or business networks, as well as prior generation products.
Hardware
The majority of the revenue from this segment is from hardware sales and is recognized when control is transferred to our customers, which is generally when we ship the products.
Shipping terms are generally FOB shipping point.
Revenue is recorded net of estimated discounts and rebates using historical trends.
Customers are typically invoiced when control is transferred and revenue is recognized.
Our products generally include assurance-based warranties of 90 days to five years for product defects, which are accrued at the time revenue is recognized.
In certain transactions, we are also the lessor in sales-type lease arrangements for network equipment that have terms of 18 months to five years.
These arrangements typically include network equipment, network implementation services and maintenance services.
Product revenue for these leases is generally recorded when we transfer control of the product to our customers.
Revenue for network implementation and maintenance services is recognized as described below.
Customers are typically invoiced and pay in equal installments over the lease term.
In relation to these lease agreements, during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we recognized revenue of $4.2 million and $8.4 million, respectively, and during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 we recognized revenue of $10.5 million and $15.4 million, respectively.
To complement our Network Solutions segment, we offer a complete portfolio of maintenance, network implementation, and solutions integration and managed services, which include hosted cloud services and subscription services.
Maintenance
Our maintenance service periods range from one month to five years.
Customers are typically invoiced and pay for maintenance services at the beginning of the maintenance period.
We recognize revenue for maintenance services on a straight-line basis over the maintenance period in services revenue as our customers benefit evenly throughout the contract term and deferred revenues are recorded in current and non-current unearned revenue.
Network Implementation
We recognize revenue for network implementation, which primarily consists of engineering, execution and enablement services, at a point in time when each performance obligation is complete.
If we have recognized revenue, but have not billed the customer, the right to consideration is recognized as a contract asset that is included in other receivables in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The contract asset is transferred to accounts receivable when the completed performance obligation is invoiced to the customer.
As of September 30, 2018, we did not have any significant performance obligations related to customer contracts that had an original expected duration of one year or more, other than maintenance services, which are satisfied over time.
The decrease in accounts receivable is due to the collection of customer specific payment terms that became due in the first quarter of 2018.
The increase in the contract asset balance for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to revenue recognized that has not yet been billed to the customer during the period.
The increase in the unearned revenue balance as of nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to cash payments received or due in advance of satisfying our performance obligations, offset by $8.9 million of revenues recognized that were included in the unearned revenue balance as of December 31, 2017.
Our effective tax rate decreased from an expense of 23.1% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017, to a benefit of 34.9%, excluding the tax effect of the bargain purchase gain, in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The decrease in the effective tax rate between the two periods is primarily driven by the completion of other tax projects, current year net losses in our domestic business and the effect of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017.
5.
PENSION BENEFIT PLAN
We maintain a defined benefit pension plan covering employees in certain foreign countries.
The components of net periodic pension cost other than the service cost component are included in the line item “Other income (expense), net” in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Stock Options
The aggregate intrinsic values in the table above represent the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the difference between the closing price of our stock on the last trading day of the quarter and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money stock options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on September 30, 2018.
The aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the fair market value of our stock.
The total pre-tax intrinsic value of options exercised during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
As of September 30, 2018, there was $1.2 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 1.0 years.
The fair value of our stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes model.
The determination of the fair value of stock options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model is affected by our stock price, as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables that may have a significant impact on the fair value estimate.
There were no stock options granted during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 or 2017.
 PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock
The fair value of our PSUs with market conditions is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation valuation method.
The fair value of RSUs and restricted stock is equal to the closing price of our stock on the date of grant.
During the first quarter of 2017, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved a PSU grant of 0.5 million shares that contain performance conditions.
The fair value of these performance-based PSU awards was equal to the closing price of our stock on the date of grant.
As of September 30, 2018, there was $9.8 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested market-based PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 2.6 years.
In addition, there was $9.4 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested performance-based PSUs, which will be recognized over the requisite service period of three years as the achievement of the performance objective becomes probable.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, no compensation expense was recognized related to these performance-based PSU awards.
Debt Securities and Other Investments
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because some borrowers have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
Our investment policy provides limitations for issuer concentration, which limits, at the time of purchase, the concentration in any one issuer to 5% of the market value of our total investment portfolio.
At September 30, 2018, we held a $26.7 million restricted certificate of deposit that is carried at cost.
This investment serves as a collateral deposit against the principal amount outstanding under loans made to ADTRAN pursuant to an Alabama State Industrial Development Authority revenue bond (the Bond), which totaled $26.7 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the Bond using a level 2 valuation technique was approximately $26.5 million and $26.7 million, respectively, based on a debt security with a comparable interest rate and maturity and a Standard and Poor’s credit rating of AAA.
We have the right to set-off the balance of the Bond with the collateral deposit in order to reduce the balance of the indebtedness.
The Bond matures on January 1, 2020, and bears interest at the rate of 2% per annum.
In conjunction with this program, we are eligible to receive certain economic incentives from the state of Alabama that reduce the amount of payroll withholdings we are required to remit to the state for those employment positions that qualify under this program.
We are required to make payments in the amounts necessary to pay the interest on the amounts currently outstanding.
It is our intent to make annual principal payments in addition to the interest amounts that are due.
Marketable Equity Securities
Our marketable equity securities consist of publicly traded stocks or funds measured at fair value.
Prior to January 1, 2018, our marketable equity securities were classified as available-for-sale.
Realized gains and losses on marketable equity securities were included in net investment gain (loss).
Unrealized gains and losses were recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of deferred taxes, on the balance sheet.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2016-01, which requires us to measure all equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method at fair value, with any changes in fair value recognized in net investment gain (loss).
Upon adoption, we reclassified $3.2 million of net unrealized gains related to marketable equity securities from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to opening retained earnings.
As of September 30, 2018 and 2017, gross unrealized losses related to individual investments in a continuous loss position for twelve months or longer were not significant.
The fair value of our Level 2 securities is calculated using a weighted average market price for each security.
Market prices are obtained from a variety of industry standard data providers, security master files from large financial institutions, and other third-party sources.
These multiple market prices are used as inputs into a distribution-curve-based algorithm to determine the daily market value of each security.
8.
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
We participate in foreign exchange forward contracts in connection with the management of exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Cash Flow Hedges
Our cash flow hedging activities utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that movements in exchange rates will adversely affect the net cash flows resulting from the planned purchase of products from foreign suppliers.
Purchases of U.S. denominated inventory by our European subsidiary represent our primary exposure.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are not recognized in current operating results, but are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income.
Amounts related to cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income when the underlying hedged item impacts earnings.
This reclassification is recorded in cost of sales, the same line item of the Consolidated Statements of Income at which the effects of the hedged item are recorded.
Undesignated Hedges
We have certain customers and suppliers who are invoiced or pay in a non-functional currency.
Changes in the monetary exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as outstanding non-functional balances are revalued to the functional currency through profit and loss.
When appropriate, we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to help manage the volatility relating to these valuation exposures.
All changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments that do not qualify for or are not designated for hedged accounting transactions are recognized as other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.
Our derivative instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values.
Our derivative instruments are not subject to master netting arrangements and are not offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of September 30, 2018, we had no foreign exchange forward contracts.
We establish reserves for estimated excess, obsolete, or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated fair value of the inventory based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, raw materials reserves totaled $17.2 million and $15.0 million, respectively, and finished goods inventory reserves totaled $10.6 million and $8.3 million, respectively.
10.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each year and between annual evaluations if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying amount.
We have elected to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill is assigned is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step impairment test.
If we determine that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step impairment test will be performed.
Based on the results of our qualitative assessment in 2017, we concluded that it was not necessary to perform the two-step impairment test.
There have been no impairment losses recognized since the acquisition in 2011.
Intangible assets are included in other assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and include intangibles acquired in conjunction with our acquisitions of Bluesocket, Inc. on August 4, 2011, the NSN BBA business on May 4, 2012, CommScope’s active fiber access business on September 13, 2016 and Sumitomo Electric Lightwave Corp.’s North American EPON business and technology license and OEM supply agreement with Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. on March 19, 2018.
The following table presents our intangible assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Fully amortized intangible assets have been removed from prior year balances for comparability.
Amortization expense, all of which relates to business acquisitions, was $0.9 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $2.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Stock Repurchase Program
Since 1997, our Board of Directors has approved multiple share repurchase programs that have authorized open market repurchase transactions of up to 50.0 million shares of our common stock that are implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 0.9 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $15.75 per share.
As of September 30, 2018, we have the authority to purchase an additional 2.7 million shares of our common stock under the current plans approved by the Board of Directors.
Stock Option Exercises
We issued 0.1 million shares of treasury stock during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 to accommodate employee stock option exercises.
The stock options had exercise prices ranging from $15.29 to $18.97.
We received proceeds totaling $1.3 million from the exercise of these stock options during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Dividend Payments
Other Comprehensive Income
Other comprehensive income consists of unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities; unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges; reclassification adjustments for amounts included in net income related to impairments of available-for-sale debt securities, realized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities, realized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges, and amortization of actuarial gains (losses) related to our defined benefit plan; defined benefit plan adjustments; and foreign currency translation adjustments.
With the adoption of ASU 2016-01, the unrealized gains on our equity investments were reclassified to retained earnings.
See Note 1 for more information.
Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost.
See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost.
See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost.
See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost.
See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
12.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Anti-dilutive options to purchase common stock outstanding were excluded from the above calculations.
Anti-dilutive options totaled 3.9 million and 3.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 4.8 million and 3.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
As a result of the net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we excluded 0.1 million of unvested stock options, PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock from the calculation of diluted EPS due to their anti-dilutive effect.
We evaluate the performance of our segments based on gross profit; therefore, selling, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, interest and dividend income, interest expense, net investment gain, other income (expense) and provision for taxes are reported on a company-wide, functional basis only.
There are no inter-segment revenues.
The following table presents information about the reported sales and gross profit of our reportable segments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
We do not produce asset information by reportable segment; therefore, it is not reported.
Sales by Category
14.
LIABILITY FOR WARRANTY RETURNS
Our products generally include warranties of 90 days to five years for product defects.
We accrue for warranty returns at the time revenue is recognized based on our estimate of the cost to repair or replace the defective products.
We engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers.
Our products continue to become more complex in both size and functionality as many of our product offerings migrate from line card applications to total systems.
The increasing complexity of our products will cause warranty incidences, when they arise, to be more costly.
Our estimates regarding future warranty obligations may change due to product failure rates, material usage, and other rework costs incurred in correcting a product failure.
In addition, from time to time, specific warranty accruals may be recorded if unforeseen problems arise.
Should our actual experience relative to these factors be worse than our estimates, we will be required to record additional warranty expense.
Alternatively, if we provide for more reserves than we require, we will reverse a portion of such provisions in future periods.
The liability for warranty obligations totaled $9.0 million and $9.7 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
During the three months ended March 31, 2017, we recorded a receivable and a reduction in warranty expense related to a settlement with a third party supplier for a defective component, the impact of which is reflected in the table below.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we had a reversal of prior provisions, the impact of which is reflected in the table below.
These liabilities are included in accrued expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.
15.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including employment disputes, patent claims, disputes over contract agreements and other commercial disputes.
In some cases, claimants seek damages or other relief, such as royalty payments related to patents, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures.
Although the outcome of any claim or litigation can never be certain, it is our opinion that the outcome of all contingencies of which we are currently aware will not materially affect our business, operations, financial condition or cash flows.
We have committed to invest up to an aggregate of $7.9 million in two private equity funds, and we have contributed $8.4 million as of September 30, 2018, of which $7.7 million has been applied to these commitments.
On October 16, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per common share to be paid to stockholders of record at the close of business on October 31, 2018.
The payment date will be November 14, 2018.
The quarterly dividend payment will be approximately $4.3 million.
In July 2003, our Board of Directors elected to begin declaring quarterly dividends on our common stock considering the tax treatment of dividends and adequate levels of Company liquidity.
During the 4th quarter and as of November 6, 2018, we have repurchased 0.1 million shares of our common stock through open market purchases at an average cost of $13.60 per share.
We currently have the authority to purchase an additional 2.6 million shares of our common stock under the current plan approved by the Board of Directors.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
Increased tariffs caused by changes in trade policies of the United States or other countries in which we do business, which could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries resulting in “trade wars”, may increase costs for material imported into the United States and other countries.
This in turn may increase our cost of goods and result in reduced profit margins or customer demand for some of our products or in trading partners limiting their trade with the United States.
