ADTRAN, Inc. 

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 

For the three months ended March 31, 2019 

Table of Contents 


FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of ADTRAN.
ADTRAN and its representatives may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this report, our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other communications with our stockholders.
Generally, the words, “believe”, “expect”, “intend”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “will”, “may”, “could” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.
We caution you that any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause such statements to be wrong.
A list of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is included under “Factors that Could Affect Our Future Results” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained in Item 2 of Part I of this report.
They have also been discussed in Item 1A of Part I in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed on February 28, 2019 with the SEC.
Though we have attempted to list comprehensively these important factors, we caution investors that other factors may prove to be important in the future in affecting our operating results.
New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of these factors, nor can we assess the impact each factor or a combination of factors may have on our business.
You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements because they speak only of our views as of the date that the statements were made.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of ADTRAN®, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“ADTRAN” or the “Company”) have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations for reporting on Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Accordingly, certain information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements are not included herein.
The December 31, 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheet is derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state these interim statements have been recorded and are of a normal and recurring nature.
