ADTRAN, Inc. 

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 

For the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 

Table of Contents 



CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of ADTRAN, Inc. (“ADTRAN”, the “Company”, “we”, “our” or “us”).
ADTRAN and its representatives may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this report, our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and other communications with our stockholders.
Any statement that does not directly relate to a historical or current fact is a forward-looking statement.
Generally, the words, “believe”, “expect”, “intend”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “will”, “may”, “could” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.
We caution you that any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could affect the accuracy of such statements.
The following are some of the risks that could affect our financial performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements: 

•  

Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, such as those identified in Part I, Item 4 of this Form 10-Q, could, if not remediated, result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively affect the price of our common stock.
You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements because they speak only of our views as of the date that the statements were made.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of ADTRAN®, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“ADTRAN”, the “Company”, “we”, “our” or “us”) have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) applicable to interim financial information presented in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Accordingly, certain information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for complete financial statements are not included herein.
The December 31, 2018 Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet is derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP.
Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period.
Our more significant estimates include the excess, obsolete and slow moving inventory reserves, warranty reserves, customer rebates, determination of the deferred and accrued revenue components of multiple performance obligations sales agreements, estimated costs to complete obligations associated with deferred and accrued revenue, estimated income tax provision and income tax contingencies, the fair value of stock-based compensation, impairment of goodwill, valuation and estimated lives of intangible assets, estimated pension liability, fair value of investments and the evaluation of other-than-temporary declines in the value of investments.
See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 2 of this report for a description of important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected results.
