fls.txt



item1.txt
CSPi and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security products, managed IT services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
 We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on the date of customer shipment.
Managed service contracts contain the right to refund if canceled within 30 days of inception.
 HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
 Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
 TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
 The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
Only the hours that depict the Company’s performance toward satisfying a performance obligation are used for progress.
An estimate for professional services is made at the beginning of each contract based on prior experience and monitored throughout the services.
This method is most appropriate as it depicts the measure of progress towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.
For items sold separately, including hardware, software, professional services, maintenance contracts, other services, and third-party service contracts, there is no allocation performed as there is one performance obligation.
The difference in the balances is due to regular timing differences between when work is performed and having an unconditional right to payment.


item2.txt
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
See Note 11 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
 Our revenues increased by approximately $1.6 million, or 8%, to $21.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $20.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The increase in revenue is the result of an increase of $2.5 million in our TS segment, offset with a $0.9 million decrease in our HPP segment.
Our gross margin percentage decreased to 22% of revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 from 26% for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
 Our revenues increased by approximately $1.6 million to $21.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $20.0 million of revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
 The HPP product revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 of $1.6 million, decreased by $0.1 million from $1.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, primarily as a result of a decrease in Myricom product sales.
 The increase in TS segment product revenues of $2.1 million during the period was primarily the result of an increase in product revenues of $3.3 million in our U.S. division, partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease of product revenue in our U.K. division.
The $3.3 million increase in the U.S. division was primarily the result of increased product sales to one major customer.
This was primarily due to a $0.5 million increase in the U.S. division service revenues partially offset by a $0.1 million decrease in the U.K. division.
The U.S. division service revenues $0.5 million increase was substantially the result of a $0.2 million increase in managed service contracts, an increase in third party maintenance and services revenues of $0.6 million, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in internal services.


item4.txt



