fls.txt
Factors that may cause such variances include, but are not limited to, our dependence on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, our high dependence on contracts with the U.S. federal government, our reliance in certain circumstances on single sources for supply of key product components, intense competition in the market segments in which we operate, the recent sale of our German operations in our TS segment, and the recent changes in the U.S. Tax laws.


item1.txt
CSPi and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security products, managed IT services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts.
Managed service contracts contain the right to refund if canceled within 30 days of inception.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
Only the hours that depict the Company’s performance toward satisfying a performance obligation are used for progress.
This method is most appropriate as it depicts the measure of progress towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.
For items sold separately, including hardware, software, professional services, maintenance contracts, other services, and third-party service contracts, there is no allocation performed as there is one performance obligation.
Contract liabilities arise when payment is received before the Company transfers a good or service to the customer.
Current capitalized contract costs are within the account other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets for the periods ended March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
The portion of current capitalized costs was $79 thousand and $71 thousand as of March 31, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.


item2.txt
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), our revenue recognition policy has changed effective October 1, 2018 and is included in Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
See Note 11 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
 Our revenues decreased by approximately $0.3 million, or 2%, to $16.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Operating loss decreased by approximately $0.1 million from an operating loss of $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to an operating loss of $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily as a result of a decrease of $0.3 million in operating expenses partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in gross profit.
Our provision for income tax was a tax benefit of $142 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to a tax benefit of $160 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
 Our revenues decreased by approximately $0.3 million to $16.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $16.6 million of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
 The HPP product revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $1.4 million, decreased by $0.1 million from $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily as a result of a decrease in Myricom product sales.
The decrease in TS segment product revenues of $0.3 million during the period was primarily the result of a decrease in product revenues of $1.5 million in our U.S. division, partially offset by an increase of product revenue of $1.1 million in our U.K. division.
The decrease in TS segment product revenues was partially offset by an increase in TS segment service revenues of $0.3 million during the period.
The $0.1 million decrease in revenue to Europe is primarily the result of decreased sales by our HPP segment of $0.2 million, partially offset by increased sales by our TS segment of $0.1 million.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.


