fls.txt
Factors that may cause such variances include, but are not limited to, our dependence on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, our high dependence on contracts with the U.S. federal government, our reliance in certain circumstances on single sources for supply of key product components, intense competition in the market segments in which we operate, the recent sale of our German operations in our TS segment, and the recent changes in the U.S. Tax laws which are still under review by us.


item1.txt
CSPI and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security and managed services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
Accordingly, the Company's Germany division of the TS segment met the criteria for "Assets Held-for-Sale" in accordance with Accounting Standard Codification Topic 360 ("ASC 360") as of June 30, 2018.
Unless otherwise noted, discussion within these notes to the consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations.
Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.
Finished goods includes inventory that has been shipped, but for which all revenue recognition criteria has not been met, of approximately $0.4 million and $0.4 million as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Total inventory balances in the table above are shown net of reserves for obsolescence of approximately $3.2 million and $2.9 million as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, changes in the effective tax rate from the prior period include lower level of earnings and the reduction in the U.S. tax rate from 35% to 24%.
SAB 118 provides for a measurement period beginning in the reporting period that includes the Tax Act’s enactment date and ending when the Company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information needed in order to complete the accounting requirements, but in no circumstances should the measurement period extend beyond one year from the enactment date.
The Company's continuing operations has defined benefit and defined contribution plans in the United Kingdom and in the U.S.
As indicated in Note 1, during the third quarter ended June 30, 2018, CSPi's Board of Directors approved the sale of the Germany subsidiary of its TS segment.
In the United Kingdom, the Company provides defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for some of its employees.


item2.txt
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 Our revenues decreased by approximately $6.4 million, or 24%, to $20.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to $26.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
The increase in operating expenses was primarily the result of higher compensation costs with an increase in the number of engineers and outside consultants for the development of the new Aria security products in the HPP segment.
Our income tax expense decreased by approximately $144 thousand to $249 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to an income tax expense of $393 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
 Our revenues decreased by approximately $6.4 million to $20.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to $26.4 million of revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
 The HPP product revenues of $1.7 million were relatively unchanged for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, increasing by $30 thousand from $1.6 million.
The decrease in HPP services revenues of $258 thousand is primarily attributed to a $382 thousand decrease in royalties on high-speed processing boards related to the E2D program shipped for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017.
The decrease in TS segment product revenues of $7.0 million during the period was primarily the result of a decrease in product revenues of $7.2 million in our U.S. division, partially offset by an increase of $0.2 million in our U.K. division.
The decrease in TS segment product revenues was partially offset by an increase in TS segment service revenues of $0.9 million during the period.
The increase in TS segment service revenues for the period ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior fiscal year three month period was due primarily to an increase of $0.9 million in our U.S. division.
The $0.9 million increase in the U.S. division service revenues was substantially the result of a $0.8 million increase in internal services and a $0.3 million increase in managed service contracts, partially offset by a decrease in third party maintenance revenues of $0.2 million.
The $0.4 million decrease in revenue to Europe is primarily the result of decreased sales by our TS segment U.S division of $1.2 million, partially offset by increased sales by our TS segment U.K. division of $0.7 million to a U.S. division multi-national customer.
The overall HPP segment gross margin as a percentage of sales decreased to 69% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 from 73% for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
The increased engineering and development expenses for the three month period ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the three month period ended June 30, 2017 is primarily attributed to an increase in engineering headcount related expenses combined with increased consulting costs.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


