fls.txt
Factors that may cause such variances include, but are not limited to, our dependence on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, our high dependence on contracts with the U.S. federal government, our reliance in certain circumstances on single sources for supply of key product components, intense competition in the market segments in which we operate, and the recent changes in the U.S. Tax laws which are still under review by us.


item1.txt
To meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide, CSPI and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security and managed services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
Diluted net income per common share reflects the maximum dilution that would have resulted from the assumed exercise and share repurchase related to dilutive stock options and is computed by dividing net income by the assumed weighted average number of common shares outstanding.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.
Finished goods includes inventory that has been shipped, but for which all revenue recognition criteria has not been met, of approximately $0.1 million and $0.4 million as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
SAB 118 provides for a measurement period beginning in the reporting period that includes the Act’s enactment date and ending when the Company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information needed in order to complete the accounting requirements but in no circumstances should the measurement period extend beyond one year from the enactment date.
During the first quarter ended December 31, 2017, the Company recognized a provision for income taxes of $1.1 million that includes a provisional estimate in the amount of $649 thousand related to the one-time deemed repatriation transition tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings.
The Company is using a blended federal rate of roughly 24% for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018 and will use the 21% for periods after fiscal year 2018.
The Company has defined benefit and defined contribution plans in the United Kingdom, Germany and the U.S.
In the United Kingdom and Germany, the Company provides defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for some of its employees.
The domestic supplemental retirement plans have life insurance policies which are not plan assets but were purchased by the Company as a vehicle to fund the costs of the plan.
Domestically, the Company also provides for officer death benefits through post-retirement plans to certain officers.
The plan assets consist of an investment in a commingled fund which in turn comprises a diversified mix of assets including corporate equity securities, government securities and corporate debt securities.
The following tables presents certain operating segment information for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016.
In addition, accounts receivable from Customer A totaled approximately $1.0 million, or 5%, and approximately $2.4 million, or 9%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.


item2.txt
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The increase in revenue is the result of an increase of $2.4 million in our TS segment, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in our HPP segment.
Operating income increased by $0.1 million from an operating loss of $102 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2016 to operating income of $7 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of a $681 thousand increase in gross profit partially offset by an increase of $572 thousand in higher operating expenses.
The current period expenses were primarily for Myricom product engineering expenses incurred in connection with the development of the new Myricom ARIA security products.
The net change to other income (expenses) of $149 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016, was primarily driven by the net change of approximately $(147) thousand in the foreign exchange gain (loss) on foreign currency holdings in the current period as compared to the prior year period.
In accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes, the Company is required to recognize the effect of the Tax Act in the period of enactment, which was the Company’s first quarter of fiscal 2018 that ended on December 31, 2017.
The many changes in the Tax Act include a permanent reduction in the maximum federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective as of January 1, 2018.
The statutory federal income tax rate applicable for the Company's fiscal year ending September 30, 2018 is expected to be 24.3% based on a fiscal year blended rate calculation.
The Company has recorded a provisional estimate for a one-time tax expense of $490 thousand, for the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The Tax Act also requires a mandatory deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings and profits, at the rate of either 15.5% for cash or 8% for non-liquid assets.
The provisional amount is based on information currently available, including estimated tax earnings and profits from foreign investments.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


