fls.txt
Factors that may cause such variances include, but are not limited to, our dependence on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, our high dependence on contracts with the U.S. federal government, our reliance in certain circumstances on single sources for supply of key product components, intense competition in the market segments in which we operate, and the recent changes in the U.S. Tax laws which are still under review by us.


item1.txt
CSPI and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security and managed services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.
SAB 118 provides for a measurement period beginning in the reporting period that includes the Tax Act’s enactment date and ending when the Company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information needed in order to complete the accounting requirements but in no circumstances should the measurement period extend beyond one year from the enactment date.
This included a provisional estimate in the amount of $649 thousand related to the one-time deemed repatriation transition tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings.
The Company also recorded a provisional estimate for a one-time tax expense of $490 thousand which consisted primarily of the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities from 34% to 21%.
The Company has defined benefit and defined contribution plans in the United Kingdom, Germany and the U.S.
In the United Kingdom and Germany, the Company provides defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for some of its employees.
The U.S. supplemental retirement plans have life insurance policies which are not plan assets but were purchased by the Company as a vehicle to fund the costs of the plan.
The Company also provides for officer death benefits through post-retirement plans to certain officers of the Company in the U.S. All of the Company’s defined benefit plans are closed to newly hired employees and have been since September 2009.
The plan assets consist of an investment in a commingled fund which in turn comprises a diversified mix of assets including corporate equity securities, government securities and corporate debt securities.


item2.txt
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Our gross margin percentage was unchanged at 22% of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The decrease in TS segment product revenues of $3.0 million during the period was primarily the result of a decrease in product revenues of $1.4 million in our U.K. division, combined with decreases of $1.2 million and $0.4 million in our German and U.S divisions, respectively.
The $1.4 million decrease in the U.K. division product revenues was primarily the result of decreased product shipments to a major customer.
The decrease in TS segment product revenues was partially offset by an increase in TS segment service revenues of $1.3 million during the period.
The $2.3 million decrease in revenue to Europe is primarily the result of decreased sales by our TS segment U.K. division of $1.3 million to a U.S. division multi-national customer, combined with decreased sales by our TS segment German division of $1.0 million.
The GM as a percentage of revenue was 22% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, unchanged from the three months ended March 31, 2017.
 The overall TS segment gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 20% for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 from 16% for the three month period ended March 31, 2017.
The increased engineering and development expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2017 is primarily attributed to an increase in engineering headcount related expenses.
The net change to other income (expenses) of $16 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily driven by the net change of approximately $37 thousand in the foreign exchange gain (loss) on foreign currency holdings in the current period as compared to the prior year period, partially offset by changes in other income of $18 thousand.
In accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes, the Company is required to recognize the effect of the Tax Act in the period of enactment, which was the Company’s first quarter of fiscal 2018 that ended on December 31, 2017.
The statutory federal income tax rate applicable for the Company's fiscal year ending September 30, 2018 is expected to be 24.3% based on a fiscal year blended rate calculation.
The decrease in overall revenue for the six month period ended March 31, 2018 as compared to prior fiscal year six month period was the result of an approximately $1.9 million decrease in our HPP segment revenue, partially offset by an increase of approximately $0.6 million in our TS segment.
 Our total revenues decreased by $1.3 million to $44.0 million for the six months ended March 31, 2018 as compared $45.2 million of revenues for the six months ended March 31, 2017.
The decrease in HPP product revenues for the period of $0.4 million was primarily the result of a decrease of approximately $0.8 million in Multicomputer product line shipments, partially due to a large shipment in the prior fiscal year period, partially offset by an increase in Myricom product line shipments of $0.4 million for the six months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the six months ended March 31, 2017.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


