fls.txt
Factors that may cause such variances include, but are not limited to, our dependence on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, our high dependence on contracts with the U.S. federal government, our reliance in certain circumstances on single sources for supply of key product components, intense competition in the market segments in which we operate, the recent sale of our German operations in our TS segment, and the recent changes in the U.S. Tax laws.


item1.txt
CSPi and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security products, managed IT services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Third-party service contracts are sold in different combinations with hardware, software, and services.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on date of customer shipment.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping.
Managed service contracts contain the right to refund if canceled within 30 days of inception.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
Financing revenue is recorded in revenue as equipment leasing and is part of the Company's central operations.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
Only the hours that depict the Company’s performance toward satisfying a performance obligation are used for progress.
An estimate for professional services is made at the beginning of each contract based on prior experience and monitored throughout the services.
This method is most appropriate as it depicts the measure of progress towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.
Due to the complex nature of these contracts, there is significant judgment in allocating the transaction price.
When the Company has performed work but does not have an unconditional right to payment, a contract asset is recorded.


item2.txt
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
September 30, 2018 in the “Critical Accounting Policies” section contained in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
See Note 12 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
Our revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million, or 14%, to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The HPP segment revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 was primarily impacted by lower royalties recognized by approximately $0.5 million on high-speed processing boards during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three month period ended December 31, 2017.
Our operating income decreased by approximately $150 thousand resulting in operating income of $15 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to operating income of $165 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of increased selling and marketing expenses and increased engineering expenses for the three month period ended December 31, 2018.
 Our total revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The decrease in HPP services revenues of $0.6 million for the period was primarily the result of a decrease of approximately $0.5 million in royalty revenues on high-speed processing boards related to the E2D program during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.


item4.txt
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.


