fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our revenues are generated principally from the sale of our products.
Revenue is recognized as performance obligations under the terms of a contract, such as a purchase order with a customer, are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control.
We limit our warranty to the replacement or repair of defective parts, or a refund or credit of the price of the defective product.
We do not account for these warranties as separate performance obligations.
We intend to adopt the standard using the optional transition method permitted by ASU No.
2018-11, which allows for application of the standard at the adoption date and no restatement of comparative periods.
We believe that we are following an appropriate timeline to allow for the proper recognition, reporting, and disclosure of leases upon adoption of ASC 842 at the beginning of fiscal 2020.
2017-12, an update to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging.


item2.txt
Risk Factors.” Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in United States (“U.S.”) dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”).
See “Non-GAAP Financial Measure” for additional information regarding this measure.
For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home.
●Our net sales decreased 5.4% and 3.2% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018, with sales declines in the Transportation Solutions and Communications Solutions segments, partially offset by growth in the Industrial Solutions segment.
On an organic basis, our net sales decreased 2.8% and 0.5% during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018.
●Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 6.8% and 5.6% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market.
●Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 1.7% and 3.4% during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, primarily as a result of increased sales in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market.
●Net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $1,575 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
●Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales declines in the industrial equipment and energy end markets to be partially offset by growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.81 to $0.87 per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $5.42 to $5.48 per share in fiscal 2019.
Swiss Parliament approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“Swiss Tax Reform”) in September 2018, and it was approved by public vote in May 2019.
Certain measures became effective in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and accordingly are reflected in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
We are currently assessing the impacts of the federal provisions and subsequent cantonal implementation.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we acquired three businesses for a combined cash purchase price of $296 million, net of cash acquired.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to “Part I.


