item1.txt
In management’s opinion, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of interim results.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018.
We account for revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which introduced a single, comprehensive, five-step revenue recognition model.
Revenue is recognized as performance obligations under the terms of a contract, such as a purchase order with a customer, are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control.
We do not account for these warranties as separate performance obligations.
2018-11, which allows for application of the standard at the adoption date and no restatement of comparative periods.
The update improves and simplifies hedge accounting and related disclosures.
This guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory in the period in which the transfer occurs.
This included a decrease in other assets of $798 million, an increase in deferred tax assets of $418 million, and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $63 million on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
This guidance supersedes ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, and introduces a single, comprehensive, five-step revenue recognition model.
We adopted ASC 606, as amended, in the quarter ended December 28, 2018 using a modified retrospective approach.


item2.txt
Risk Factors.” Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in United States (“U.S.”) dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”).
The following discussion includes organic net sales growth which is a non‑GAAP financial measure.
See “Non‑GAAP Financial Measure” for additional information regarding this measure.
For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home.
·    Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 7.6% and 5.0% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market.
·    Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 3.6% and 4.4% during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, primarily as a result of increased sales in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market.
·    Communications Solutions—Our net sales decreased 4.8% and 1.3% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the appliances end market.
·    Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be offset by declines in the energy and industrial equipment end markets.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.13 to $1.17 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $4.88 to $4.98 per share in fiscal 2019.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we sold our Subsea Communications (“SubCom”) business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre‑tax loss on sale of $86 million.
The SubCom business met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and was reported as such in all periods presented on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $27 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $55 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019.
Approximately 60% of our net sales were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the first six months of fiscal 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to “Part I.


