Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company, and reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income and cash flows for the interim periods presented.
Accordingly, these statements do not include all information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual consolidated financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2018 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 25, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full fiscal year or future operating periods.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new standard, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), which establishes a comprehensive new revenue recognition model designed to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Refer to Note 5 – Revenue for a summary of the impacts of adopting this standard, and a discussion of our updated policies related to revenue recognition.
In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update (ASU) which eliminates the deferred tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory.
As a result, tax expense from the sale of an asset in the seller’s tax jurisdiction is recognized when the transfer occurs, even though the pre-tax effects of that transaction are eliminated in consolidation.Our Data Fabric simplifies and integrates data management across clouds and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation, enabling our customers to manage, secure and protect their data at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world.
Whether an organization is targeting an all-cloud, hybrid cloud, or multi-cloud strategy, NetApp Cloud Data Services accelerate the time it takes to deploy or develop an application by making the data requirements seamless to the application layer.
To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we have historically grouped our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we repurchased 22 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $74.17 per share, for an aggregate of $1,611 million.The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes in Part I, Item 1 – Financial Statements and Part I, Item 2 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-Q.
If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products while managing the transition from older products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.
Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks.
avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and related components and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers’ demands.
Further risks inherent in new product and solutions introductions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions.