Item 1.  Financial Statements. 



PARK AEROSPACE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 









See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). 





PARK AEROSPACE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 







See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). 





PARK AEROSPACE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE EARNINGS 







See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). 





PARK AEROSPACE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 









See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). 





PARK AEROSPACE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 







See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). 





PARK AEROSPACE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



NOTES TO Condensed CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 







1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 1, 2019, the Consolidated Statements of Operations, the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings and the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 and August 26, 2018 and the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the 26 weeks then ended have been prepared by Park Aerospace Corp., formerly Park Electrochemical Corp. (the “Company”), without audit. In the opinion of management, these unaudited consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments (which include only normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the financial position at September 1, 2019 and the results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented. The Consolidated Statements of Operations are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year or any subsequent interim period. 



Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted. It is suggested that these consolidated financial statements be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 3, 2019. There have been no significant changes to such accounting policies during the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019, except for adoption of ASC 842. (See Note 13, Accounting Pronouncements). 



On July 25, 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Electronics Business for $145,000 in cash. This transaction was completed on December 4, 2018. (See Note 11). 



The Company has classified the operating results of its Electronics Business, together with certain costs related to the transaction, as discontinued operations, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205-20 Discontinued Operations. (See Note 11). 



On July 16, 2019, the Company filed with the State of New York Department of State a Certificate of Amendment of its Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, changing its name to “Park Aerospace Corp.” after the Board of Directors of the Company approved such amendment and the shareholders of the Company approved such amendment at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. On July 16, 2019, the Company also filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Kansas, a Certificate of Ownership and Merger whereby the Company’s Park Aerospace Technologies Corp. wholly owned subsidiary located at the Newton, Kansas Airport was merged into the Company and ceased to exist.  



2. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 



Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. 





Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access at the measurement date. An active market for the asset or liability is a market in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. 





Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability (e.g., interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals or current market) and contractual prices for the underlying financial instrument, as well as other relevant economic measures. 



Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. Unobservable inputs are used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date. 



The fair value of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate their carrying value due to their short-term nature. Certain assets and liabilities of the Company are required to be recorded at fair value on either a recurring or non-recurring basis. On a recurring basis, the Company records its marketable securities at fair value using Level 1 or Level 2 inputs. (See Note 3). 



The Company’s non-financial assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include goodwill and any long-lived assets written down to fair value. To measure fair value of such assets, the Company uses Level 3 inputs consisting of techniques including an income approach and a market approach. The income approach is based on a discounted cash flow analysis and calculates the fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting the after-tax cash flows to a present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate. Assumptions used in the discounted cash flow analysis require the exercise of significant judgment, including judgment about appropriate discount rates, terminal values, growth rates and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. There were no transfers between levels within the fair value hierarchy during the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 and August 26, 2018. With respect to goodwill, the Company first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that fair value is less than carrying value. If, based on that assessment, the Company believes it is more likely than not that fair value is less than carrying value, a goodwill impairment test is performed. There have been no changes in events or circumstances which required impairment charges to be recorded during the 13 or 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019.  





All marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in comprehensive earnings. Realized gains and losses, amortization of premiums and discounts, and interest and dividend income are included in interest and other income in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The costs of securities sold are based on the specific identification method. 





























The Company has operating leases related to land, office space, warehouse space and equipment. All of the Company’s leases have been assessed to be operating leases. Renewal options are included in the lease term to the extent the Company is reasonably certain to exercise the option. The exercise of lease renewal options is at the Company’s sole discretion. The incremental borrowing rate represents the Company’s ability to borrow on a collateralized basis over a term similar to the lease term. The leases typically contain renewal options for periods ranging from one year to ten years and require the Company to pay real estate taxes and other operating costs. The latest land lease expiration is 2068 assuming exercise of all applicable renewal options by the Company. The Company’s existing leases are not subject to any restrictions or covenants which preclude its ability to pay dividends, obtain financing or exercise its available renewal options. 









The above payment schedule includes renewal options that the Company is reasonably likely to exercise. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the Company’s balance sheet. The Company recognizes lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the terms of the leases. The above payment schedule does not include lease payments of $395 in 2020 and $463 in 2021 for the Company’s idle facility in Fullerton, California that have been accrued on the condensed consolidated balance sheets in accrued liabilities. 



For the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019, the Company’s operating lease expense was $95 and $190, respectively. Cash payments of $189, pertaining to operating leases, are reflected in the cash flow statement under cash flows from operating activities. 







The Company’s weighted average remaining lease term for its operating leases is 6.9 years. 



In December 2018, the Company’s Park Aerospace Technologies Corp. (“PATC”) business unit located at the Newton, Kansas Airport entered into a Development Agreement with the City of Newton, Kansas and the Board of County Commissioners of Harvey County, Kansas. Pursuant to this agreement, PATC agreed to construct and operate an additional manufacturing facility approximately 90,000 square feet in size for the design, development and manufacture of advanced composite materials and parts, structures and assemblies for aerospace. PATC further agreed to equip the facility through the purchase of machinery, equipment and furnishings and to create additional new full-time employment of specified levels during a five year period. In exchange for these agreements, the City and the County agreed to lease to PATC three acres of land at the Newton, Kansas Airport, in addition to the eight acres previously leased to PATC by the City and County. The City and County further agreed to provide financial and other assistance toward the construction of the additional facility as set forth in the Development Agreement. The Company estimates the total cost of the additional facility to be approximately $20 million, and the Company expects to complete the construction of the additional facility in the first half of the 2020 calendar year. As of September 1, 2019, the Company had $2,234 in equipment purchase obligations and $3,934 of construction-in-progress related to the additional facility. On July 16, 2019, PATC was merged into the Company and ceased to exist, and the Company assumed the rights and obligations of PATC, including the rights and obligations of PATC under the Development Agreement. (See Note 1, Consolidated Financial Statements). 







As of September 1, 2019, the Company had a 2018 Stock Option Plan (the “2018 Plan”), and no other stock-based compensation plan. The 2018 Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company on May 8, 2018 and approved by the shareholders of the Company at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company on July 24, 2018 and provides for the grant of options to purchase up to 800,000 shares of common stock of the Company to directors, employees and consultants. Prior to the 2018 Plan, the Company had the 2002 Stock Option Plan (the “2002 Plan”) which had been approved by the Company’s shareholders and provided for the grant of stock options to directors and key employees of the Company. All options granted under the 2018 Plan and 2002 Plan have exercise prices equal to the fair market value of the underlying common stock of the Company at the time of grant, which, pursuant to the terms of such Plans, is the reported closing price of the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date preceding the date the option is granted. Options granted under the Plans become exercisable 25% one year after the date of grant, with an additional 25% exercisable each succeeding anniversary of the date of grant, and expire 10 years after the date of grant. Upon termination of employment or service as a director of an optionee, all options held by the optionee that have not previously become exercisable shall terminate and all other options held by such optionee may be exercised, to the extent exercisable on the date of such termination, for a limited time after such termination. Any shares of common stock subject to an option under the 2018 Plan which expires or is terminated unexercised as to such shares shall again become available for issuance under the 2018 Plan. 



The 2002 Plan terminated on May 21, 2018, and authority to grant additional options under the 2002 Plan expired on that date. All options granted under the 2002 Plan will expire in April 2028 or earlier. 





The risk-free interest rates were based on U.S. Treasury rates at the date of grant with maturity dates approximately equal to the estimated terms of the options at the date of the grant. Volatility factors were based on historical volatility of the Company’s common stock. The expected dividend yields were based on the regular quarterly cash dividend per share most recently declared by the Company and on the exercise price of the options granted during the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019. The estimated term of the options was based on evaluations of the historical and expected future employee exercise behavior. 









7. EARNINGS PER SHARE  



Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of (a) the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and (b) the potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Stock options are the only potentially dilutive securities; and the number of dilutive options is computed using the treasury stock method. 







Potentially dilutive securities, which were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share, because either the effect would have been anti-dilutive or the options’ exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock, were 77,000 and 146,000 for the 13 weeks ended September 1, 2019 and August 26, 2018, respectively, and 134,000 and 345,000 for the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 and August 26, 2018, respectively.  





During the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019, the Company sold 29,174 shares of the Company’s treasury stock pursuant to the exercises of employee stock options, received proceeds of $365 from such exercises and recognized stock-based compensation expense, net of recognized tax benefits, of $265. These transactions resulted in a $235 increase in additional paid-in capital during the period. 



On January 8, 2015, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized the Company’s purchase, on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions, of up to 1,250,000 shares of its common stock, representing approximately 6% of the Company’s 20,945,634 total outstanding shares as of the close of business on January 7, 2015. This authorization superseded all prior Board of Directors’ authorizations to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock. 





On March 10, 2016, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized the Company’s purchase, on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions, of up to 1,000,000 additional shares of its common stock, in addition to the unused prior authorization to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock announced on January 8, 2015. As a result, the Company is authorized to purchase up to a total of 1,531,412 shares of its common stock, representing approximately 7.5% of the Company’s 20,517,939 total outstanding shares as of the close of business on October 4, 2019. 



The Company did not purchase any shares of its common stock during the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 or during the 26 weeks ended August 26, 2018. 





For the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019, the Company recorded an income tax provision from continuing operations of $710 and $1,826, respectively, which included a discrete income tax provision of $169. For the 13 weeks ended August 26, 2018, the Company recorded an income tax benefit from continuing operations of $438. For the 26 weeks ended August 26, 2018, the Company recorded an income tax benefit from continuing operations of $163. The income taxes were impacted by a one-time benefit of $788 related to clarifying regulations pertaining to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017.  



The Company’s effective tax rates for the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 were income tax provisions of 25.7% and 27.7%, respectively, compared to income tax provisions of negative 31.6% and negative 6.6% in the comparable prior periods. The effective tax rates for the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 were higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 21% primarily due to state and local taxes, a discrete income tax provision for stock compensation and the accrual of interest related to unrecognized tax benefits. The effective rates for the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended August 26, 2018 were lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the one-time benefit noted above. 



Notwithstanding the U.S. taxation of the deemed repatriated earnings as a result of the mandatory one-time transition tax on the accumulated untaxed earnings of foreign subsidiaries of U.S. shareholders included in the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the Company intends to indefinitely invest approximately $25 million of undistributed earnings outside of the U.S. If these future earnings are repatriated to the U.S., or if the Company determines such earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future, the Company may be required to accrue U.S. deferred taxes. The Company repatriated $0, $113,600, and $135,300 in cash from the Company’s subsidiary in Singapore in the 2020, 2019 and 2018 fiscal years, respectively. 





The Company’s products are sold to customers in North America, Asia and Europe. The Company’s manufacturing facilities are located in Kansas. Sales are attributed to geographic regions based upon the region in which the materials were delivered to the customer. Sales between geographic regions were not significant. Customer sales concentrations for the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 are not materially different from that reported in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 3, 2019. 













On July 25, 2018, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Electronics Business for $145,000 in cash. The Company completed this transaction on December 4, 2018. 



The Company has classified the operating results of its Electronics Business, together with certain costs related to the transaction, as discontinued operations, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 









During the 13 weeks ended September 1, 2019, the Company received from AGC Inc. the final settlement payment for the sale of the Electronics Business of $288 for post-closing adjustments for changes in working capital compared to target net working capital as agreed in the Electronics Business Purchase Agreement with AGC Inc. Additionally, during the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019, the Company incurred transition and tax related costs of $95 and $231, respectively, in connection with the sale of the Electronics Business. 



During the 2018 fiscal year, the Company consolidated its Nelco Products, Inc. Business Unit located in Fullerton, California and its Neltec, Inc. Business Unit located in Tempe, Arizona. (Both Business Units were included in the Company’s sale of its Electronics Business on December 4, 2018). The Company estimates the remaining pre-tax charge in connection with the consolidation to be approximately $700, which the Company expects to incur primarily during the fiscal year ending March 1, 2020. 











Litigation  



The Company is subject to a small number of immaterial proceedings, lawsuits and other claims related to environmental, employment, product and other matters. The Company is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes in these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of reserves required, if any, for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each individual issue. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in approach, such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. The Company believes that the ultimate disposition of such proceedings, lawsuits and claims will not have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, capital resources, business, consolidated results of operations or financial position of the Company. 



Environmental Contingencies  



The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been named by the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) or a comparable state agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (the “Superfund Act”) or similar state law as potentially responsible parties in connection with alleged releases of hazardous substances at three sites. 



Under the Superfund Act and similar state laws, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a hazardous waste disposal site or contaminated area identified by the EPA or comparable state agency may be jointly and severally liable for the cost of cleanup. Generally, these sites are locations at which numerous persons disposed of hazardous waste. In the case of the Company’s subsidiaries, generally the waste was removed from their manufacturing facilities and disposed at waste sites by various companies which contracted with the subsidiaries to provide waste disposal services. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries have been accused of or charged with any wrongdoing or illegal acts in connection with any such sites. The Company believes it maintains an effective and comprehensive environmental compliance program. 



The insurance carriers which provided general liability insurance coverage to the Company and its subsidiaries for the years during which the Company’s subsidiaries’ waste was disposed at these three sites have in the past reimbursed the Company and its subsidiaries for 100% of their legal defense and remediation costs associated with two of these sites. 



The Company does not record environmental liabilities and related legal expenses for which the Company believes that it and its subsidiaries have general liability insurance coverage for the years during which the Company’s subsidiaries’ waste was disposed at two sites for which certain subsidiaries of the Company have been named as potentially responsible parties. Pursuant to such general liability insurance coverage, three insurance carriers reimburse the Company and its subsidiaries for 100% of the legal defense and remediation costs associated with the two sites. 



Included in selling, general and administrative expenses are charges for actual expenditures and accruals, based on estimates, for certain environmental matters described above. The Company accrues estimated costs associated with known environmental matters, when such costs can be reasonably estimated and when the outcome appears probable. The Company believes that the ultimate disposition of known environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 







Recently Adopted 







Recently Issued 







Item 1.  Legal Proceedings. 



None. 



Item 1A. Risk Factors. 



There have been no material changes in the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended March 3, 2019. 



