item1.txt
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Power Integrations, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In February 2016, the FASB amended the existing accounting standards for leases, ASU 2016-02, Leases. The amendments require lessees to recognize, on the balance sheet, assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by leases of greater than twelve months. The accounting by lessors will remain largely unchanged from that applied under previous U.S. GAAP. The Company is required to adopt the amendments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, with early adoption permitted. The amendments require a modified retrospective transition approach to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments and the transition alternatives on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company's cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2018, was approximately $6.1 million (comprising approximately $3.9 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $1.8 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan). In the six months ended June 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $11.7 million (comprising approximately $8.2 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $2.7 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.8 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2017, was approximately $6.3 million (comprising approximately $3.7 million related to RSUs, $2.3 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan). In the six months ended June 30, 2017, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $11.3 million (comprising approximately $7.2 million related to RSUs, $3.5 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.6 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met. The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance. The performance metrics of this program are annual targets consisting of a combination of net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals.
  The Company's PRSU program provides for the issuance of PRSUs which will vest based on the Company's performance measured against the PRSU program's established revenue targets. PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met. The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number. The performance goals for PRSUs granted in fiscal 2016, 2017 and 2018 were based on the Company’s annual revenue growth over the respective three-year performance period.
The Company is organized and operates as one reportable segment, the design, development, manufacture and marketing of integrated circuits and related components for use primarily in the high-voltage power-conversion market. The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash investments and trade receivables. The Company does not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to its customers. As 
 Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average shares of common stock 
The Company's effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, were 6.8% and 5.5%, respectively, and 5.2% and 0.3% for the corresponding periods of 2017. In the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the effective tax rates for these periods were lower than the then statutory federal income-tax rates of 21% and 35%, respectively, due to the geographic distribution of the Company’s world-wide earnings in lower tax jurisdictions, federal research tax credits, as well as the recognition of excess tax benefits related to share-based payments. These benefits were offset in part by the estimated 2018 GILTI tax for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company maintained a valuation allowance on its California deferred tax assets, New Jersey deferred tax assets, and capital losses for federal purposes, and a valuation allowance with respect to its deferred tax assets relating to tax credits in Canada.
Under the terms of the Company's wafer-supply agreements with Seiko Epson Corporation ("Epson"), and ROHM Lapis Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ("Lapis") the wafers purchased from these suppliers are priced in U.S. dollars; however, these agreements also allow for mutual sharing of the impact of the exchange rate fluctuation between Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar on future purchases. Each year, the Company's management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing is denominated in U.S. dollars but is subject to contractual exchange rate provisions. The fluctuation in the exchange rate is shared equally between the Company and each of these suppliers on future purchases.
In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has and is infringing four of Power Integrations’ patents pertaining to pulse width modulation (PWM) integrated circuit devices. Fairchild denied infringement and asked for a declaration from the court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid. The Court issued a claim construction order on March 31, 2006 which was favorable to the Company. The Court set a first trial on the issues of infringement, willfulness and damages for October 2, 2006. At the close of the first trial, on October 10, 2006, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company finding all asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit to be willfully infringed by Fairchild and awarding $34.0 million in damages. Fairchild raised defenses contending that the asserted patents are invalid or unenforceable, and the Court held a second trial on these issues beginning on September 17, 2007. On September 21, 2007, the jury returned a verdict in the Company’s favor, affirming the validity of the asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit. Fairchild submitted further materials on the issue of enforceability along with various other post-trial motions, and the Company filed post-trial motions seeking a permanent injunction and increased damages and attorneys’ fees, among other things. On September 24, 2008, the Court denied Fairchild’s motion regarding enforceability and ruled that all four patents are enforceable. On December 12, 2008, the Court ruled on the remaining post-trial motions, including granting a permanent injunction, reducing the damages award to $6.1 million, granting Fairchild a new trial on the issue of willful infringement in view of an intervening change in the law, and denying the Company’s motion for increased damages and attorneys’ fees with leave to renew the motion after the resolution of the issue of willful infringement. On December 22, 2008, at Fairchild’s request, the Court temporarily stayed the permanent injunction for 90 days. On January 12, 2009, Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the Court’s refusal to enter a more permanent stay of the injunction, and Fairchild filed additional motions requesting that both the Federal Circuit and the District Court extend the stay of injunction. The District Court temporarily extended the stay pending the Federal Circuit ruling on Fairchild’s pending motion, but the Federal Circuit dismissed Fairchild’s appeal and denied its motion on May 5, 2009, and the District Court issued an order on May 13, 2009 confirming the reinstatement of the permanent injunction as originally entered in December 2008. On June 22, 2009, the Court held a brief bench re-trial on the issue of willful infringement. On July 22, 2010, the Court found that Fairchild willfully infringed all four of the asserted patents, and the Court also invited briefing on enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees. Fairchild also filed a motion requesting that the Court amend its findings regarding willfulness. On January 18, 2011, the Court denied Fairchild’s request to amend the findings regarding Fairchild’s willful infringement and doubled the damages award against Fairchild but declined to award attorneys’ fees. On February 3, 2011, the Court entered final judgment in favor of the Company for a total damages award of $12.9 million. Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the final judgment and a number of the underlying rulings, and the Company filed a cross-appeal seeking to increase the damages award. The appeal was argued on January 11, 2012, and the Federal Circuit issued a mixed ruling on March 26, 2013, affirming Fairchild’s infringement of certain claims that support the basis for the permanent injunction while reversing, vacating, and remanding the findings with respect to other claims, including the Company’s claim for damages. The Company filed a petition seeking Supreme Court review of the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages issues, and the Supreme Court called for a response from Fairchild but ultimately declined to review the case. On remand, the District Court reinstated the prior findings that Fairchild willfully infringed three of the Company’s patents; the Company intends to pursue its claim for financial compensation based on Fairchild’s infringement.
On May 23, 2008, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has infringed and is infringing three patents pertaining to power supply controller integrated circuit devices. Fairchild answered the Company’s complaint on November 7, 2008, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid and unenforceable. Fairchild’s answer also included counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing three patents pertaining to primary side power conversion integrated circuit devices. Fairchild had earlier brought these same claims in a separate suit against the Company, also in Delaware, which Fairchild dismissed in favor of adding its claims to the Company’s already pending suit against Fairchild. The Company has answered Fairchild’s counterclaims, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Fairchild patent and that the Fairchild patents are invalid. Fairchild also filed a motion to stay the case, but the Court denied that motion on December 19, 2008. On March 5, 2009, Fairchild filed a motion for summary judgment to preclude any recovery for post-verdict sales of parts found to infringe in the parties’ other ongoing litigation, described above, and the Company filed its opposition and a cross-motion to preclude Fairchild from re-litigating the issues of infringement and damages for those same products. On June 26, 2009, the Court held a hearing on the parties’ motions, and on July 9, 2009 the Court issued an order denying the parties’ motions but staying proceedings with respect to the products that were found to infringe and which are subject to the injunction in the other Delaware case between the parties pending the entry of final judgment in that case; those products are expected to be addressed in the context of the parties’ remand proceedings following the appeal in their earlier litigation in Delaware, and the remainder of the case is proceeding. On December 18, 2009, the Court issued an order construing certain terms in the asserted claims of the Company’s and Fairchild’s patents in suit. Following the Court’s ruling on claim construction, Fairchild withdrew its claim related to one of its patents and significantly reduced the number of claims asserted for the remaining two patents. The parties thereafter filed and argued a number of motions for summary judgment, and the Court denied the majority of the parties’ motions but granted the Company’s motion to preclude Fairchild from re-arguing validity positions that were rejected in the prior case between the parties. Because the 


item2.txt
Our market-penetration strategy also includes capitalizing on the importance of energy efficiency in the power conversion market. For example, our EcoSmart™ technology drastically reduces the amount of energy consumed by electronic products when they are not in use, helping our customers comply with regulations that seek to curb this so-called “standby” energy consumption. Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, renewable-energy installations and electric transportation applications.
the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families, which address applications up to about 500 watts) and our entry into the gate-driver markets through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012. In 2016 we introduced the SCALE-iDriverTM family of gate-driver ICs, which enables us to address applications between approximately 10 kilowatts and 100 kilowatts, whereas previously our gate-driver products were primarily for applications above 100 kilowatts.
Also contributing to our SAM expansion has been the emergence of new applications within the power ranges that our products can address. For example, applications such as LED lighting, “smart” utility meters, battery-powered lawn equipment and bicycles, and USB power ports (installed alongside traditional AC wall outlets) can incorporate our products; the increased use of electronic intelligence and controls in consumer appliances has also enhanced our SAM. Finally, we have enhanced our SAM by increasing the level of integration of our products, which in turn increases their value. For example, our InnoSwitch™ ICs integrate circuitry from the secondary, or low-voltage, side of AC-DC power supplies, whereas earlier product families integrated circuitry only on the primary, or high-voltage side.
Our net revenues were $109.5 million and $107.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $212.6 million and $212.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in net revenues for the three month period was due primarily to higher unit sales into the industrial end-market, driven mainly by growth in high-power gate-driver applications. Net revenues for the six-month period were flat compared with the prior-year period as growth in the industrial, computer and consumer end-markets was offset by lower sales into the communications end-market for cellphone-charger and residential-networking applications.
Our top ten customers, including distributors that resell to OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for approximately 59% and 58% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and approximately 57% of net revenues in each of the respective corresponding periods of 2017. Our top customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for approximately 14% and 15% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and approximately 16% and 17% in the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. International sales accounted for approximately 97% and 96% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and approximately 96% of net revenues in each of the respective corresponding periods of 2017.
Our gross margin was 51% and 50% in the three months ended June 30, 2018, and 2017, respectively, and 52% and 49% in the six months ended June 30, 2018, and 2017, respectively. The increases in gross margin as compared with the same periods in the prior year were due primarily to a favorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from higher-margin end-markets; cost-reduction efforts also contributed to the increases.
International sales, consisting of sales outside of the United States of America based on “bill to” customer locations, were $105.8 million and $205.0 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and $103.1 million and $203.9 million in the corresponding periods of 2017, respectively. Although power converters using our products are distributed to end markets worldwide, most are manufactured in Asia. As a result, sales to this region represented 79% and 78%, of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and 78% and 79% of our net revenues in the corresponding periods of 2017, respectively. We expect international sales, and sales to the Asia region in particular, to continue to account for a large portion of our net revenues in the future.
As of June 30, 2018, we had $246.7 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities, a decrease of approximately $36.2 million from $282.9 million as of December 31, 2017. As of June 30, 2018, we had working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, of $288.6 million, a decrease of approximately $24.9 million from $313.5 million as of December 31, 2017.
Operating activities generated cash of $42.4 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018. Net income for this period was $29.6 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization of $11.7 million, $9.7 million and $2.7 million, respectively. Sources of cash also included a $9.9 million decrease in accounts receivable due to increased cash collections. These sources of cash were partially offset by an $11.7 million increase in inventory, reflecting anticipated demand, a $7.3 million decrease in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments, and a $1.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid taxes and maintenance agreements.
Operating activities generated cash of $30.0 million in the six months ended June 30, 2017. Net income for this period was $28.0 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization expenses of $11.3 million, $8.5 million and $3.2 million, respectively. Sources of cash also included a $3.2 million increase in taxes payable and accrued liabilities. These sources of cash were partially offset by a $12.2 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased shipments, an $8.3 million increase in prepaid expenses and a $3.6 million decrease in accounts payable due primarily to the timing of payments.
Our investing activities provided $79.3 million of cash in the six months ended June 30, 2018, consisting of $90.4 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $10.5 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily for manufacturing. Our investing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2017, resulted in a $56.3 million net use of cash, consisting of $33.4 million for purchases of marketable securities, net of maturities, and $22.9 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment. 


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. We consider cash invested in highly liquid financial instruments with a remaining maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Investments in highly liquid financial instruments with maturities greater than three months at the date of purchase are classified as short-term investments. We generally hold securities until maturity; however, they may be sold under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, when necessary for the funding of acquisitions and other strategic investments, and therefore we classify our investment portfolio as available-for-sale. We invest in high-credit quality issuers and, by policy, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. As stated in our policy, we seek to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. We mitigate default risk by investing in safe and high-credit quality securities and by constantly positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository. Our portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to facilitate portfolio liquidity. At June 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, we held primarily cash equivalents and short-term investments with fixed interest rates. 
Our investment securities are subject to market interest rate risk and will vary in value as market interest rates fluctuate. We monitor our investments per our above-mentioned investment policy; therefore, if market interest rates were to increase or decrease by 10% from interest rates as of June 30, 2018, or December 31, 2017, the increase or decrease in the fair market value of our portfolio on these dates would not have been material. We monitor our investments for impairment on a periodic basis. Refer to Note 5, Marketable Securities, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for a tabular presentation of our available-for-sale investments and the expected maturity dates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In January 2018, our board of directors authorized the use of an additional $30.0 million for the repurchase of our common stock, which was announced on February 1, 2018. In the six months ended June 30, 2018, we purchased approximately 0.9 million shares for approximately $63.4 million. As of June 30, 2018, we had approximately $11.0 million remaining in our repurchase program, which has no expiration date.


