item1.txt
In February 2016, the FASB amended the existing accounting standards for leases, ASU 2016-02, Leases. The amendments require lessees to recognize, on the balance sheet, assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by leases. The accounting by lessors will remain largely unchanged from that applied under previous U.S. GAAP. The Company is required to adopt the amendments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, with early adoption permitted.
The Company adopted the new standards in the first quarter of 2019, effective January 1, 2019, using the optional transition method, under which the new standards were applied prospectively rather than restating the prior periods presented. The Company elected the practical expedients under the transition guidance, which includes the use of hindsight in determining the lease term and the practical expedient package to not reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, to not reassess the classification of any expired or existing leases, and to not reassess initial direct costs for any existing leases. In addition, the Company elected the practical expedient to recognize lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. The Company has elected not to record on the balance sheet leases with an initial term of twelve months or less. Upon adoption, the Company recognized both right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities of approximately $7.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively, on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The difference between the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities was due to prepaid rent. There was no impact on the condensed consolidated statement of income or the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Company's cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2019, was approximately $5.5 million, comprising approximately $4.2 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $0.9 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan. In the six months ended June 30, 2019, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $9.9 million, comprising approximately $8.8 million related to RSUs, $0.3 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.8 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2018, was approximately $6.1 million, comprising approximately $3.9 million related to RSUs, $1.8 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan. In the six months ended June 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $11.7 million, comprising approximately $8.2 million related to RSUs, $2.7 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.8 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met. The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance. The performance metrics of this program are annual targets consisting of a combination of net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals.
As the net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals are considered performance conditions, expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the service period based on an assessment of the achievement of the performance targets. The fair value of these PSUs is determined using the fair value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant, reduced by the discounted present value of dividends expected to be declared before the awards vest. 
Expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recorded throughout the year depending on the number of shares expected to vest based on progress toward the performance target. If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
The Company is organized and operates as one reportable segment, the design, development, manufacture and marketing of integrated circuits and related components for use primarily in the high-voltage power-conversion market. The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash investments and trade receivables. The Company does not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to its customers. As of June 30, 2019, and December 31, 2018, 66% and 64%, respectively, of accounts receivable were concentrated with the Company’s top ten customers.
 Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average shares of common stock and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive common equivalent shares included in this calculation consist of dilutive shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of outstanding common stock options, the assumed vesting of outstanding restricted stock units, the assumed issuance of awards under the stock purchase plan and contingently issuable performance-based awards, as computed using the treasury stock method.
Initial lease terms are determined at commencement and may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain the Company will exercise the option. Remaining lease terms range from one to nine years, some of which include options to extend for up to six years, and some of which include options to terminate within one year. Leases with an initial term of twelve months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet. As the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the present value of future lease payments is determined using the Company’s incremental borrowing rate based on information available at commencement date.
Under the terms of the Company's wafer-supply agreements with Seiko Epson Corporation ("Epson"), and ROHM Lapis Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ("Lapis") the wafers purchased from these suppliers are priced in U.S. dollars, with mutual sharing of the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar on future purchases. Each year, the Company's management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing is denominated in U.S. dollars but is subject to contractual exchange rate provisions. The fluctuation in the exchange rate is shared equally between the Company and each of these suppliers on future purchases.
On October 20, 2004, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”) in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has and is infringing four of Power Integrations’ patents pertaining to pulse width modulation (PWM) integrated circuit devices. Fairchild denied infringement and asked for a declaration from the court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid. The Court issued a claim construction order on March 31, 2006, which was favorable to the Company. The Court set a first trial on the issues of infringement, willfulness and damages for October 2, 2006. At the close of the first trial, on October 10, 2006, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company finding all asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit to be willfully infringed by Fairchild and awarding $34.0 million in damages. Fairchild raised defenses contending that the asserted patents are invalid or unenforceable, and the Court held a second trial on these issues beginning on September 17, 2007. On September 21, 2007, the jury returned a verdict in the Company’s favor, affirming the validity of the asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit. Fairchild submitted further materials on the issue of enforceability along with various other post-trial motions, and the Company filed post-trial motions seeking a permanent injunction and increased damages and attorneys’ fees, among other things. On September 24, 2008, the Court denied Fairchild’s motion regarding enforceability and ruled that all four patents are enforceable. On December 12, 2008, the Court ruled on the remaining post-trial motions, including granting a permanent injunction, reducing the damages award to $6.1 million, granting Fairchild a new trial on the issue of willful infringement in view of an intervening change in the law, and denying the Company’s motion for increased damages and attorneys’ fees with leave to renew the motion after the resolution of the issue of willful infringement. On December 22, 2008, at Fairchild’s request, the Court temporarily stayed the permanent injunction for 90 days. On January 12, 2009, Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the Court’s refusal to enter a more permanent stay of the injunction, and Fairchild filed additional motions requesting that both the Federal Circuit and the District Court extend the stay of injunction. The District Court temporarily extended the stay pending the Federal Circuit ruling on Fairchild’s pending motion, but the Federal Circuit dismissed Fairchild’s appeal and denied its motion on May 5, 2009, and the District Court issued an order on May 13, 2009 confirming the reinstatement of the permanent injunction as originally entered in December 2008. On June 22, 2009, the Court held a brief bench re-trial on the issue of willful infringement. On July 22, 2010, the Court found that Fairchild willfully infringed all four of the asserted patents, and the Court also invited briefing on enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees. Fairchild also filed a motion requesting that the Court amend its findings regarding willfulness. On January 18, 2011, the Court denied Fairchild’s request to amend the findings regarding Fairchild’s willful infringement and doubled the damages award against Fairchild but declined to award attorneys’ fees. On February 3, 2011, the Court entered final judgment in favor of the Company for a total damages award of $12.9 million. Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the final judgment and a number of the underlying rulings, and the Company filed a cross-appeal seeking to increase the damages award. The appeal was argued on January 11, 2012, and the Federal Circuit issued a mixed ruling on March 26, 2013, affirming Fairchild’s infringement of certain claims that support the basis for the permanent injunction while reversing, vacating, and remanding the findings with respect to other claims, including the Company’s claim for damages. The Company filed a petition seeking Supreme Court review of the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages issues, and the Supreme Court called for a response from Fairchild but ultimately declined to review the case. On remand, the District Court reinstated the prior findings that Fairchild willfully infringed three of the Company’s patents; the Company intends to pursue its claim for financial compensation based on Fairchild’s infringement. Moreover, following a new Supreme Court case on patent damages, the District Court on October 4, 2018 determined that the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages in the earlier appeal had been overruled; that issue is now on appeal at the Federal Circuit, with briefing completed on the impact of the Supreme Court’s ruling and the scope of the proceedings on remand and oral argument expected in the coming months.
On May 23, 2008, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has infringed and is infringing three patents pertaining to power supply controller integrated circuit devices. Fairchild answered the Company’s complaint on November 7, 2008, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid and unenforceable. Fairchild’s answer also included counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing three patents pertaining to primary side power conversion integrated circuit devices. Fairchild had earlier brought these same claims in a separate suit against the Company, also in Delaware, which Fairchild dismissed in favor of adding its claims to the Company’s already pending suit against Fairchild. The Company has answered Fairchild’s counterclaims, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Fairchild patent and that the Fairchild patents are invalid. Fairchild also filed a motion to stay the case, but the Court denied that motion on December 19, 2008. On March 5, 2009, Fairchild filed a motion for summary judgment to preclude any recovery for post-verdict sales of parts found to infringe in the parties’ other ongoing litigation, described above, and the Company filed its opposition and a cross-motion to preclude Fairchild from re-litigating the issues of infringement and damages for those same products. On June 26, 2009, the Court held a hearing on the parties’ motions, and on July 9, 2009 the Court issued an order denying the parties’ motions but staying proceedings with respect to the products that were found to infringe and which are subject to the injunction in the other Delaware case between the parties pending the entry of final judgment in that case; those products are expected to be addressed in the context of the parties’ remand proceedings following the appeal in their earlier litigation in Delaware, and the remainder of the case is proceeding. On December 18, 2009, the Court issued an order construing certain terms in the asserted claims of the Company’s and Fairchild’s patents in suit. Following the Court’s ruling on claim construction, Fairchild withdrew its claim related to one of its patents and significantly reduced the number of claims asserted for the remaining two patents. The parties thereafter filed and argued a number of motions for summary judgment, and the Court denied the majority of the parties’ motions but granted the Company’s motion to preclude Fairchild from re-arguing validity positions that were rejected in the prior case between the parties. Because the assigned Judge retired at the end of July 2010, the case was re-assigned to a different Judge, and the Court vacated the trial schedule and had the parties provide their input on the appropriate course of action. The Court thereafter set a trial schedule with the jury trial on infringement and validity to begin in July 2011. On April 18, 2011, the Court rescheduled the trial to begin in January 2012, and on June 2, 2011, the Court moved the trial date to April 2012 to permit the parties to address another patent the Company accused Fairchild of infringing. Following a trial in April 2012, the jury returned a verdict finding that Fairchild infringes two of the Company’s patents, that Fairchild has induced others to infringe the Company’s patents, and also upheld the validity of the infringed patents. Of the two remaining counterclaim patents Fairchild asserted in the case, one was found not to be infringed, but the jury found the second patent to be infringed by a limited number of the Company’s products, although the jury further found the Company did not induce infringement by any customers, including customers outside the United States. On March 29, 2013, the District Court denied most of the parties’ post-trial motions on liability but granted the Company’s motion for judgment as a matter of law finding that Fairchild infringed another of the Company’s patents. On April 25, 2013, the Court denied both parties’ motions regarding the unenforceability of each other’s patents. The Company challenged adverse findings on appeal; nevertheless, the Company estimated that even if the verdict on Fairchild’s patent had ultimately been upheld, the sales potentially impacted would have amounted to less than 0.5% of the Company’s revenues. The Company requested an injunction preventing further infringement of its own patents by Fairchild, and Fairchild requested an injunction as well. Following a hearing on the issue in June 2014, the Court denied Fairchild’s request for an injunction against the Company and granted the Company’s request for an injunction against Fairchild. On January 13, 2015, the District Court entered final judgment on the liability and validity issues discussed above, and both parties filed appeals with the Federal Circuit. After briefing was completed, oral argument on the appeal took place in early July 2016, and on December 12, 2016, the Federal Circuit issued its opinion in the appeal, overturning the lone infringement verdict against the Company, finding one of the Company’s patents invalid, and overturning the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement. In view of the Federal Circuit’s rejection of the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement, the Court also vacated the inducement findings and associated injunction against Fairchild and remanded the case for a retrial on inducement, but the underlying validity and infringement findings against Fairchild on those two patents remain intact. At the conclusion of the retrial, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company, finding that Fairchild willfully infringed the Company’s patents and induced infringement of the patents, awarding $24.3 million in damages on November 9, 2018. Although the jury awarded damages, at this stage of the proceedings the Company cannot state the amount, if any, it might ultimately recover from Fairchild, and no benefits have been recorded in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements as a result of the damages verdict. Fairchild challenged the verdict, and the Company sought enhanced damages for Fairchild’s willful infringement in post-trial proceedings, but on July 2019, the Court denied both parties’ motions. The Court did, however, award $7.1 million in pre-judgement interest as a result of Fairchild’s infringement. Further proceedings are expected over the coming months, with appeals to follow.
On June 28, 2004, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, against System General Corporation (SG), a Taiwanese company, and its U.S. subsidiary. The Company’s complaint alleged that certain integrated circuits produced by SG infringed and continue to infringe certain of its patents. On June 10, 2005, in response to the initiation of an International Trade Commission (ITC) investigation on the patents asserted in the District Court 


item2.txt
Our products bring a number of important benefits to the power-conversion market compared with less advanced alternatives, including reduced component count and design complexity, smaller size, higher reliability and reduced time-to-market. Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficacy of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
•Increase our penetration of the markets we serve. We currently address AC-DC applications with power outputs up to approximately 500 watts, gate-driver applications of approximately ten kilowatts and higher, and motor-drive applications up to approximately 300 watts. Through our research and development efforts, we seek to introduce more advanced products for these markets offering higher levels of integration and performance compared to earlier products. We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products. These tools and services include our PI Expert™ design software, which we offer free of charge, and our transformer-sample service.
•Increase the size of our addressable market. Prior to 2010 our addressable market consisted of AC-DC applications with up to about 50 watts of output, a served available market (“SAM”) opportunity of approximately $1.5 billion. Since that time we have expanded our SAM to approximately $4 billion through a variety of means. These include the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families), the introduction of LED-driver products, and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012. In 2016 we introduced the SCALE-iDriverTM family of gate-driver ICs, broadening the range of gate-driver applications we can address. In 2018 we introduced our BridgeSwitch™ motor-driver ICs, as described above.
Also contributing to our SAM expansion has been the emergence of new applications within the power ranges that our products can address. For example, applications such as “smart” utility meters, battery-powered lawn equipment and bicycles, and USB power receptacles (installed alongside traditional AC wall outlets) can incorporate our products. The increased use of electronic intelligence and connectivity in consumer appliances has also enhanced our SAM. Finally, we have enhanced our SAM by increasing the level of integration of our products, which in turn increases their value. For example, our InnoSwitch™ ICs integrate circuitry from the secondary, or low-voltage, side of AC-DC power supplies, whereas earlier product families integrated circuitry only on the primary, or high-voltage side.
Our net revenues were $102.9 million and $109.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $192.1 million and $212.6 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease for the three-month period was a result of lower sales into the consumer and industrial end markets, reflecting reduced demand for consumer-appliances and a broad range of industrial applications. These decreases were partially offset by growth in the communications and computer end markets, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone and tablet chargers, respectively. The decrease in the six-month period reflects a broad-based decline in demand across all end markets resulting from global trade disputes.
Our top ten customers, including distributors that resell to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for 56% and 54% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 59% and 58% of net revenues in each of the respective corresponding periods of 2018. Our top customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for approximately 10% and 12% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 14% and 15% in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. International sales accounted for 97% of our net revenues in each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 97% and 96% of net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Total operating expenses were $41.8 million and $40.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $81.2 million and $80.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increases were due primarily to higher salary and related expenses driven by the expansion of our workforce and by annual merit increases; also contributing to the increases were higher legal expenses in connection with our litigation with ON Semiconductor as well as equipment related expenses in support of our product-development efforts. These increases were partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense related to performance-based awards.
Net revenues.  Net revenues consist of revenues from product sales, which are calculated net of returns and allowances. Net revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $102.9 million and $192.1 million, respectively, and $109.5 million and $212.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018. The decrease for the three-month period was a result of lower sales into the consumer and industrial end markets, reflecting reduced demand for consumer-appliances and a broad range of industrial applications. This decrease was partially offset by growth in the communications and computer end markets, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone and tablet chargers, respectively. The decrease in the six month period reflects a broad-based decline in demand across all end markets resulting from global trade disputes.
Operating activities generated cash of $20.5 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019. Net income for this period was $18.1 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization and deferred income taxes of $9.9 million, $9.4 million, $2.5 million and $1.7 million, respectively. Sources of cash also included a $4.2 million increase in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments, and a $1.2 million increase in taxes payable and accrued liabilities. These sources of cash were partially offset by a $14.5 million increase in accounts receivable due to the timing of customer shipments, an $8.3 million increase in inventory reflecting a combination of the recent market slowdown and anticipation of future demand, and a $3.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid taxes and advances to suppliers.
Operating activities generated cash of $42.4 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018. Net income for this period was $29.6 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization of $11.7 million, $9.7 million and $2.7 million, respectively. Sources of cash also included a $9.9 million decrease in accounts receivable due to increased cash collections. These sources of cash were partially offset by an $11.7 million increase in inventory, reflecting anticipated demand, a $7.3 million decrease in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments, and a $1.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid taxes and maintenance agreements.
Our financing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2019, resulted in an $11.5 million net use of cash, consisting of $9.9 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders and $7.3 million for the repurchase of our common stock. These uses of cash were offset in part by $5.7 million from the issuance of common stock, including the exercise of employee stock options and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan. Our financing activities in the six months ended June 30, 2018, resulted in a $67.2 million net use of cash, consisting of $63.4 million for the repurchase of our common stock and $9.5 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders. These uses of cash were offset in part by $5.6 million from the issuance of common stock, including the exercise of employee stock options and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. As of June 30, 2019, our primary transactional currency was U.S. dollars; in addition, we hold cash in Swiss francs and euro. We maintain cash denominated in Swiss francs and euro to fund the operations of our Swiss subsidiary. The foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the U.S. dollar versus the Swiss franc and euro is recorded in other income in our condensed consolidated statements of income. 
We have sales offices in various other foreign countries in which our expenses are denominated in the local currency, primary Asia and Western Europe. Cash balances held in foreign countries are subject to local banking laws and may bear higher or lower risk than cash deposited in the United States. From time to time we may enter into foreign currency hedging contracts to hedge certain foreign currency transactions. As of June 30, 2019, and December 31, 2018, we did not have an open foreign currency hedge program utilizing foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


