item1.txt
The Company's cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2017, was approximately $6.5 million (comprising approximately $4.0 million related to RSUs, $2.2 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan). In the nine months ended September 30, 2017, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $17.8 million (comprising approximately $11.2 million related to RSUs, $5.7 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.9 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met. The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance. The performance metrics of this program are annual targets consisting of a combination of net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals.
  The Company's PRSU program provides for the issuance of PRSUs which will vest based on the Company's performance measured against the PRSU program's established revenue targets. PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met. The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number. The performance goals for PRSUs granted in fiscal 2016, 2017 and 2018 were based on the Company’s annual revenue growth over the respective three-year performance period.
The Company is organized and operates as one reportable segment, the design, development, manufacture and marketing of integrated circuits and related components for use primarily in the high-voltage power-conversion market. The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance.
The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 56% and 57% of net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and approximately 56% and 55% of net revenues, respectively, in the corresponding periods of 2017. A significant portion of these revenues are attributable to sales of the Company’s products to distributors of electronic components. These distributors sell the Company’s products to a broad, diverse range of end users, including OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers. Sales to distributors were $83.3 million and $245.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and $83.2 million and $249.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2017. Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
 Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average shares of common stock and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive common equivalent shares included in this calculation consist of dilutive shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of outstanding common stock options, the assumed vesting of outstanding restricted stock units, the assumed issuance of awards under the stock purchase plan and contingently issuable performance-based awards, as computed using the treasury stock method. 
The SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (SAB 118), which provides guidance on accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act. SAB 118 provides a measurement period that should not extend beyond one year from the Tax Act enactment date for companies to complete the accounting under ASC 740. In accordance with SAB 118, a company must reflect the income tax effects of those aspects of the Tax Act for which the accounting under ASC 740 is complete. To the extent that a company’s accounting 
The Company also re-measured certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in future periods, which is generally 21%. In the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded a provisional amount of $4.9 million related to the re-measurement of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities. As the Company is still analyzing certain aspects of the Tax Act and refining calculations, the measurement of these balances may potentially change or give rise to new deferred tax amounts.
The Company's effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, were 7.6% and 6.3%, respectively, and 2.6% and 1.2% for the corresponding periods of 2017. In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the effective tax rates for these periods were lower than the then statutory federal income-tax rates of 21% and 35%, respectively, due to the geographic distribution of the Company’s world-wide earnings in lower tax jurisdictions, federal research tax credits, as well as the recognition of excess tax benefits related to share-based payments. These benefits were offset in part by the estimated 2018 GILTI tax for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Under the terms of the Company's wafer-supply agreements with Seiko Epson Corporation ("Epson"), and ROHM Lapis Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ("Lapis") the wafers purchased from these suppliers are priced in U.S. dollars; however, these agreements also allow for mutual sharing of the impact of the exchange rate fluctuation between Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar on future purchases. Each year, the Company's management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing 
On October 20, 2004, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”) in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has and is infringing four of Power Integrations’ patents pertaining to pulse width modulation (PWM) integrated circuit devices. Fairchild denied infringement and asked for a declaration from the court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid. The Court issued a claim construction order on March 31, 2006 which was favorable to the Company. The Court set a first trial on the issues of infringement, willfulness and damages for October 2, 2006. At the close of the first trial, on October 10, 2006, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company finding all asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit to be willfully infringed by Fairchild and awarding $34.0 million in damages. Fairchild raised defenses contending that the asserted patents are invalid or unenforceable, and the Court held a second trial on these issues beginning on September 17, 2007. On September 21, 2007, the jury returned a verdict in the Company’s favor, affirming the validity of the asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit. Fairchild submitted further materials on the issue of enforceability along with various other post-trial motions, and the Company filed post-trial motions seeking a permanent injunction and increased damages and attorneys’ fees, among other things. On September 24, 2008, the Court denied Fairchild’s motion regarding enforceability and ruled that all four patents are enforceable. On December 12, 2008, the Court ruled on the remaining post-trial motions, including granting a permanent injunction, reducing the damages award to $6.1 million, granting Fairchild a new trial on the issue of willful infringement in view of an intervening change in the law, and denying the Company’s motion for increased damages and attorneys’ fees with leave to renew the motion after the resolution of the issue of willful infringement. On December 22, 2008, at Fairchild’s request, the Court temporarily stayed the permanent injunction for 90 days. On January 12, 2009, Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the Court’s refusal to enter a more permanent stay of the injunction, and Fairchild filed additional motions requesting that both the Federal Circuit and the District Court extend the stay of injunction. The District Court temporarily extended the stay pending the Federal Circuit ruling on Fairchild’s pending motion, but the Federal Circuit dismissed Fairchild’s appeal and denied its motion on May 5, 2009, and the District Court issued an order on May 13, 2009 confirming the reinstatement of the permanent injunction as originally entered in December 2008. On June 22, 2009, the Court held a brief bench re-trial on the issue of willful infringement. On July 22, 2010, the Court found that Fairchild willfully infringed all four of the asserted patents, and the Court also invited briefing on enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees. Fairchild also filed a motion requesting that the Court amend its findings regarding willfulness. On January 18, 2011, the Court denied Fairchild’s request to amend the findings regarding Fairchild’s willful infringement and doubled the damages award against Fairchild but declined to award attorneys’ fees. On February 3, 2011, the Court entered final judgment in favor of the Company for a total damages award of $12.9 million. Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the final judgment and a number of the underlying rulings, and the Company filed a cross-appeal seeking to increase the damages award. The appeal was argued on January 11, 2012, and the Federal Circuit issued a mixed ruling on March 26, 2013, affirming Fairchild’s infringement of certain claims that support the basis for the permanent injunction while reversing, vacating, and remanding the findings with respect to other claims, including the Company’s claim for damages. The Company filed a petition seeking Supreme Court review of the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages issues, and the Supreme Court called for a response from Fairchild but ultimately declined to review the case. On remand, the District Court reinstated the prior findings that Fairchild willfully infringed three of the Company’s patents; the Company intends to pursue its claim for financial compensation based on Fairchild’s infringement. Moreover, following a new Supreme Court case on patent damages, the District Court on October 4, 2018 determined that the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages in the earlier appeal had been overruled; further briefing on the scope of the proceedings on remand is expected in the coming months.
On May 23, 2008, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has infringed and is infringing three patents pertaining to power supply controller integrated circuit devices. Fairchild answered the Company’s complaint on November 7, 2008, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid and unenforceable. Fairchild’s answer also included counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing three patents pertaining to primary side power conversion integrated circuit devices. Fairchild had earlier brought these same claims in a separate suit against the Company, also in Delaware, which Fairchild dismissed in favor of adding its claims to the Company’s already pending suit against Fairchild. The Company has answered Fairchild’s counterclaims, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Fairchild patent and that the Fairchild patents are invalid. Fairchild also filed a motion to stay the case, but the Court denied that motion on December 
19, 2008. On March 5, 2009, Fairchild filed a motion for summary judgment to preclude any recovery for post-verdict sales of parts found to infringe in the parties’ other ongoing litigation, described above, and the Company filed its opposition and a cross-motion to preclude Fairchild from re-litigating the issues of infringement and damages for those same products. On June 26, 2009, the Court held a hearing on the parties’ motions, and on July 9, 2009 the Court issued an order denying the parties’ motions but staying proceedings with respect to the products that were found to infringe and which are subject to the injunction in the other Delaware case between the parties pending the entry of final judgment in that case; those products are expected to be addressed in the context of the parties’ remand proceedings following the appeal in their earlier litigation in Delaware, and the remainder of the case is proceeding. On December 18, 2009, the Court issued an order construing certain terms in the asserted claims of the Company’s and Fairchild’s patents in suit. Following the Court’s ruling on claim construction, Fairchild withdrew its claim related to one of its patents and significantly reduced the number of claims asserted for the remaining two patents. The parties thereafter filed and argued a number of motions for summary judgment, and the Court denied the majority of the parties’ motions but granted the Company’s motion to preclude Fairchild from re-arguing validity positions that were rejected in the prior case between the parties. Because the assigned Judge retired at the end of July 2010, the case was re-assigned to a different Judge, and the Court vacated the trial schedule and had the parties provide their input on the appropriate course of action. The Court thereafter set a trial schedule with the jury trial on infringement and validity to begin in July 2011. On April 18, 2011, the Court rescheduled the trial to begin in January 2012, and on June 2, 2011, the Court moved the trial date to April 2012 to permit the parties to address another patent the Company accused Fairchild of infringing. Following a trial in April 2012, the jury returned a verdict finding that Fairchild infringes two of the Company’s patents, that Fairchild has induced others to infringe the Company’s patents, and also upheld the validity of the infringed patents. Of the two remaining counterclaim patents Fairchild asserted in the case, one was found not to be infringed, but the jury found the second patent to be infringed by a limited number of the Company’s products, although the jury further found the Company did not induce infringement by any customers, including customers outside the United States. On March 29, 2013, the District Court denied most of the parties’ post-trial motions on liability but granted the Company’s motion for judgment as a matter of law finding that Fairchild infringed another of the Company’s patents. On April 25, 2013, the Court denied both parties’ motions regarding the unenforceability of each other’s patents. The Company challenged adverse findings on appeal; nevertheless, the Company estimated that even if the verdict on Fairchild’s patent had ultimately been upheld, the sales potentially impacted would have amounted to less than 0.5% of the Company’s revenues. The Company requested an injunction preventing further infringement of its own patents by Fairchild, and Fairchild requested an injunction as well. Following a hearing on the issue in June 2014, the Court denied Fairchild’s request for an injunction against the Company and granted the Company’s request for an injunction against Fairchild. On January 13, 2015, the District Court entered final judgment on the liability and validity issues discussed above, and both parties filed appeals with the Federal Circuit. After briefing was completed, oral argument on the appeal took place in early July 2016, and on December 12, 2016, the Federal Circuit issued its opinion in the appeal, overturning the lone infringement verdict against the Company, finding one of the Company’s patents invalid, and overturning the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement. In view of the Federal Circuit’s rejection of the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement, the Court also vacated the inducement findings and associated injunction against Fairchild and remanded the case for a retrial on inducement, but the underlying validity and infringement findings against Fairchild on those two patents remain intact. On remand, the Company will also be seeking financial damages as well as enhanced damages for Fairchild’s willful infringement.
On June 28, 2004, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, against System General Corporation (SG), a Taiwanese company, and its U.S. subsidiary. The Company’s complaint alleged that certain integrated circuits produced by SG infringed and continue to infringe certain of its patents. On June 10, 2005, in response to the initiation of an International Trade Commission (ITC) investigation on the patents asserted in the District Court lawsuit, the District Court stayed all proceedings. Subsequent to the completion of the ITC proceedings, the District Court temporarily lifted the stay and scheduled a case management conference. On December 6, 2006, SG filed a notice of appeal of the ITC decision. In response, and by agreement of the parties, the District Court vacated the scheduled case management conference and renewed the stay of proceedings pending the outcome of the Federal Circuit appeal of the ITC determination. On November 19, 2007, the Federal Circuit affirmed the ITC’s findings in all respects, and SG did not file a petition for review. The parties subsequently filed a motion to dismiss the District Court case without prejudice. On November 4, 2009, the Company re-filed its complaint for patent infringement against SG and its parent corporations, Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, to address their continued infringement of patents at issue in the original suit that recently emerged from SG requested reexamination proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). The Company seeks, among other things, an order enjoining SG and Fairchild from infringing the Company’s patents and an award of damages resulting from the alleged infringement. Fairchild has denied infringement and asked for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent, that the patents are invalid, and that one of the two of the Company’s patents now at issue in the case is unenforceable. On May 5, 2010, SG and Fairchild filed an amended answer including counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing two patents, and later Fairchild withdrew its claim for infringement of one of the patents it originally asserted against the Company but added another patent to the case over the Company’s objections. Both parties filed summary judgment motions and challenges to each other’s experts’ testimony, and the Court granted the Company’s motion for summary judgment of non-infringement with respect to one of Fairchild’s two patents. Following a trial on the remaining claims in February 2014, the jury returned a verdict in the Company’s favor, affirming 


item2.txt
Our market-penetration strategy also includes capitalizing on the importance of energy efficiency in the power conversion market. For example, our EcoSmart™ technology drastically reduces the amount of energy consumed by electronic products when they are not in use, helping our customers comply with regulations that seek to curb this so-called “standby” energy consumption. Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, renewable-energy installations and electric transportation applications.
the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families, which address applications up to about 500 watts) and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012. In 2016 we introduced the SCALE-iDriverTM family of gate-driver ICs, which enables us to address applications between approximately 10 kilowatts and 100 kilowatts, whereas previously our gate-driver products were primarily for applications above 100 kilowatts.
Our net revenues were $110.1 million and $111.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $322.6 million and $323.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The slight decrease for the three- and nine-month periods was the result of lower sales into the communications and consumer end-markets, reflecting reduced demand for cellphone-charger, residential-networking and appliance applications. These decreases were mostly offset by growth in the industrial end-market, driven by a broad range of applications, and the computer end-market, driven by growth in power supplies for tablets. We believe that demand for our products, particularly in appliance applications, has been affected by U.S. tariffs on certain categories of appliances as well as on steel and aluminum, and by increased caution among our customers with respect to the impact of global trade disputes on their businesses.
Our top ten customers, including distributors that resell to OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for approximately 56% and 57% of our net revenues in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and approximately 56% and 55% of net revenues in each of the respective corresponding periods of 2017. Our top customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for approximately 14% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, and approximately 15% and 16% in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. International sales accounted for approximately 96% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, and 2017.
Our gross margin was 52% and 50% in the three months ended September 30, 2018, and 2017, respectively, and 52% and 49% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and 2017, respectively. The increases in gross margin as compared with the same periods in the prior year were due primarily to a favorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from higher-margin end-markets; cost-reduction efforts also contributed to the increases.
Total operating expenses were $39.0 million and $39.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Operating expenses decreased in the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the same period in the prior year, due primarily to lower stock-based compensation expense; the decrease reflects a reduction of expense related to performance-based awards in light of our 2018 performance and expectations for the remainder of the year. The decrease was partially offset by higher salary and related expenses due to the expansion of our workforce, as well as higher product-development expenses. In the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, total operating expenses were $119.2 million and $116.5 million, respectively. Operating expenses increased in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared with the same period in the prior year, due primarily to the expansion of our workforce, resulting in higher salary and related expenses, and higher product-development expenses. These increases were partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense, as explained above.
Net revenues.  Net revenues consist of revenues from product sales, which are calculated net of returns and allowances. Net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $110.1 million and $322.6 million, respectively, and $111.3 million and $323.5 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2017. The slight decrease in revenues for the three- and nine-month periods was the result of lower sales into the communications and consumer end-markets, reflecting reduced demand for cellphone-charger, residential-networking and appliance applications. These decreases were mostly offset by growth in the industrial end-market, driven by a broad range of applications, and the computer end-market, driven by growth in power supplies for tablets. We believe that demand for our products, particularly in appliance applications, has been affected by U.S. tariffs on certain categories of appliances as well as on steel and aluminum, and by increased caution among our customers with respect to global trade disputes on their businesses.
International sales, consisting of sales outside of the United States based on “bill to” customer locations, were $105.6 million and $310.6 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and $106.5 million and $310.4 million in the corresponding periods of 2017, respectively. Although power converters using our products are distributed to end markets worldwide, most are manufactured in Asia. As a result, sales to this region represented 77% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, and 78% and 79% of our net revenues in the corresponding periods of 2017, respectively. We expect international sales, and sales to the Asia region in particular, to continue to account for a large portion of our net revenues in the future.
As of September 30, 2018, we had $248.3 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities, a decrease of approximately $34.6 million from $282.9 million as of December 31, 2017. As of September 30, 2018, we had working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, of $298.3 million, a decrease of approximately $15.2 million from $313.5 million as of December 31, 2017.
Operating activities generated cash of $54.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Net income for this period was $44.5 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization expenses of $17.8 million, $13.3 million and $4.6 million, respectively. Sources of cash also included a $5.3 million increase in accounts payable primarily due to the timing of payments and $2.7 million increase in taxes payable and accrued liabilities. These sources of cash were partially offset by a $21.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by advances to suppliers and prepaid legal expenses, and a $10.9 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased shipments.
Our investing activities provided $69.3 million of cash in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, consisting of $89.3 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, partially offset by $19.1 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily for manufacturing. Our investing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2017, resulted in a $54.9 million net use of cash, consisting of $25.4 million for purchases of marketable securities, net of maturities, and $29.6 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment. 


item3.txt
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. As of September 30, 2018, our primary transactional currency was U.S. dollars; in addition, we hold cash in Swiss francs and euro. We maintain cash denominated in Swiss francs and euro to fund the operations of our Swiss subsidiary. The foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the U.S. dollar versus the Swiss franc and euro is recorded in other income in our condensed consolidated statements of income. 
We have sales offices in various other foreign countries in which our expenses are denominated in the local currency, primary Asia and Western Europe. Cash balances held in foreign countries are subject to local banking laws and may bear higher or lower risk than cash deposited in the United States. From time to time we may enter into foreign currency hedging contracts to hedge certain foreign currency transactions. As of September 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, we did not have an open foreign currency hedge program utilizing foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
In January 2018, our board of directors authorized the use of an additional $30.0 million for the repurchase of our common stock, which was announced on February 1, 2018. In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we purchased approximately 1.1 million shares for approximately $74.4 million. As of September 30, 2018, we had used up the entire amount authorized for repurchase. 


