item1.txt
The Company adopted the new standards in the first quarter of 2019, effective January 1, 2019, using the optional transition method, under which the new standards were applied prospectively rather than restating the prior periods presented. The Company elected the practical expedients under the transition guidance, which includes the use of hindsight in determining the lease term and the practical expedient package to not reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, to not reassess the classification of any expired or existing leases, and to not reassess initial direct costs for any existing leases. In addition, the Company elected the practical expedient to recognize lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. The Company has elected not to record on the balance sheet leases with an initial term of twelve months or less. Upon adoption, the Company recognized both right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities of approximately $7.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively, on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The difference between the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities was due to prepaid rent. There was no impact on the condensed consolidated statement of income or the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Company's cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2019, was approximately $5.1 million, comprising approximately $4.4 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $0.3 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $15.0 million, comprising approximately $13.2 million related to RSUs, $0.6 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $1.2 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2018, was approximately $4.4 million, comprising approximately $4.2 million related to RSUs, a reduction to expense of $0.1 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan. In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $16.1 million, comprising approximately $12.4 million related to RSUs, $2.6 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $1.1 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met. The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance. The performance metrics of this program are annual targets consisting of a combination of net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals.
As the net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals are considered performance conditions, expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the service period based on an assessment of the achievement of the performance targets. The fair value of these PSUs is determined using the fair value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant, reduced by the discounted present value of dividends expected to be declared before the awards vest. If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
  The Company's PRSU program provides for the issuance of PRSUs which will vest based on the Company's performance measured against the PRSU program's established revenue targets. PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met. The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number. The performance goals for PRSUs granted in fiscal 2017, 2018 and 2019 were based on the Company’s annual revenue growth over the respective three-year performance period.
The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 55% and 54% of net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and approximately 56% and 57%, respectively, of net revenues in the corresponding periods of the previous year. A significant portion of these revenues are attributable to sales of the Company’s products to distributors of electronic components. These distributors sell the Company’s products to a broad, diverse range of end users, including original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and merchant power supply manufacturers. Sales to distributors were $78.0 million and $222.7 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and $83.3 million and $245.4 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018. Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash investments and trade receivables. The Company does not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to its customers. As of September 30, 2019, and December 31, 2018, 65% and 64%, respectively, of accounts receivable were concentrated with the Company’s top ten customers.
The Company’s leases consist of operating leases for administrative office spaces, research-and-development facilities, design centers and sales offices in various countries around the world. The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Some lease agreements contain lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component. Total lease expense was $0.7 million and $1.8 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, while short-term and variable lease expenses were not material.
Initial lease terms are determined at commencement and may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain the Company will exercise the option. Remaining lease terms range from one to nine years, some of which include options to extend for up to six years, and some of which include options to terminate within one year. Leases with an initial term of twelve months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet. As the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the present value of future lease payments is determined using the Company’s incremental borrowing rate based on information available at commencement date.
Under the terms of the Company's wafer-supply agreements with Seiko Epson Corporation ("Epson"), and ROHM Lapis Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ("Lapis") the wafers purchased from these suppliers are priced in U.S. dollars, with mutual sharing of the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar on future purchases. Each year, the Company's management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing is denominated in U.S. dollars but is subject to contractual exchange rate provisions. The fluctuation in the exchange rate is shared equally between the Company and each of these suppliers on future purchases.
On October 20, 2004, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”) in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has and is infringing four of Power Integrations’ patents pertaining to pulse width modulation (PWM) integrated circuit devices. Fairchild denied infringement and asked for a declaration from the court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid. The Court issued a claim construction order on March 31, 2006, which was favorable to the Company. The Court set a first trial on the issues of infringement, willfulness and damages for October 2, 2006. At the close of the first trial, on October 10, 2006, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company finding all asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit to be willfully infringed by Fairchild and awarding $34.0 million in damages. Fairchild raised defenses contending that the asserted patents are invalid or unenforceable, and the Court held a second trial on these issues beginning on September 17, 2007. On September 21, 2007, the jury returned a verdict in the Company’s favor, affirming the validity of the asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit. Fairchild submitted further materials on the issue of enforceability along with various other post-trial motions, and the Company filed post-trial motions seeking a permanent injunction and increased damages and attorneys’ fees, among other things. On September 24, 2008, the Court denied Fairchild’s motion regarding enforceability and ruled that all four patents are enforceable. On December 12, 2008, the Court ruled on the remaining post-trial motions, including granting a permanent injunction, reducing the damages award to $6.1 million, granting Fairchild a new trial on the issue of willful infringement in view of an intervening change in the law, and denying the Company’s motion for increased damages and attorneys’ fees with leave to renew the motion after the resolution of the issue of willful infringement. On December 22, 2008, at Fairchild’s request, the Court temporarily stayed the permanent injunction for 90 days. On January 12, 2009, Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the Court’s refusal to enter a more permanent stay of the injunction, and Fairchild filed additional motions requesting that both the Federal Circuit and the District Court extend the stay of injunction. The District Court temporarily extended the stay pending the Federal Circuit ruling on Fairchild’s pending motion, but the Federal Circuit dismissed Fairchild’s appeal and denied its motion on May 5, 2009, and the District Court issued an order on May 13, 2009 confirming the reinstatement of the permanent injunction as originally entered in December 2008. On June 22, 2009, the Court held a brief bench re-trial on the issue of willful infringement. On July 22, 2010, the Court found that Fairchild willfully infringed all four of the asserted patents, and the Court also invited briefing on enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees. Fairchild also filed a motion requesting that the Court amend its findings regarding willfulness. On January 18, 2011, the Court denied Fairchild’s request to amend the findings regarding Fairchild’s willful infringement and doubled the damages award against Fairchild but declined to award attorneys’ fees. On February 3, 2011, the Court entered final judgment in favor of the Company for a total damages award of $12.9 million. Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the final judgment and a number of the underlying rulings, and the Company filed a cross-appeal seeking to increase the damages award. The appeal was argued on January 11, 2012, and the Federal Circuit issued a mixed ruling on March 26, 2013, 
affirming Fairchild’s infringement of certain claims that support the basis for the permanent injunction while reversing, vacating, and remanding the findings with respect to other claims, including the Company’s claim for damages. The Company filed a petition seeking Supreme Court review of the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages issues, and the Supreme Court called for a response from Fairchild but ultimately declined to review the case. On remand, the District Court reinstated the prior findings that Fairchild willfully infringed three of the Company’s patents; the Company intends to pursue its claim for financial compensation based on Fairchild’s infringement. Moreover, following a new Supreme Court case on patent damages, the District Court on October 4, 2018 determined that the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages in the earlier appeal had been overruled; that issue is now on appeal at the Federal Circuit, with briefing completed to determine the impact of the Supreme Court’s ruling and the scope of the proceedings on remand. Oral argument and rulings would have been expected in the coming months. However, this case is subject to the Definitive Agreement noted above, whereby the Company and ON are filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties.
On May 23, 2008, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has infringed and is infringing three patents pertaining to power supply controller integrated circuit devices. Fairchild answered the Company’s complaint on November 7, 2008, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid and unenforceable. Fairchild’s answer also included counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing three patents pertaining to primary side power conversion integrated circuit devices. Fairchild had earlier brought these same claims in a separate suit against the Company, also in Delaware, which Fairchild dismissed in favor of adding its claims to the Company’s already pending suit against Fairchild. The Company has answered Fairchild’s counterclaims, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Fairchild patent and that the Fairchild patents are invalid. Fairchild also filed a motion to stay the case, but the Court denied that motion on December 19, 2008. On March 5, 2009, Fairchild filed a motion for summary judgment to preclude any recovery for post-verdict sales of parts found to infringe in the parties’ other ongoing litigation, described above, and the Company filed its opposition and a cross-motion to preclude Fairchild from re-litigating the issues of infringement and damages for those same products. On June 26, 2009, the Court held a hearing on the parties’ motions, and on July 9, 2009 the Court issued an order denying the parties’ motions but staying proceedings with respect to the products that were found to infringe and which are subject to the injunction in the other Delaware case between the parties pending the entry of final judgment in that case; those products are expected to be addressed in the context of the parties’ remand proceedings following the appeal in their earlier litigation in Delaware, and the remainder of the case is proceeding. On December 18, 2009, the Court issued an order construing certain terms in the asserted claims of the Company’s and Fairchild’s patents in suit. Following the Court’s ruling on claim construction, Fairchild withdrew its claim related to one of its patents and significantly reduced the number of claims asserted for the remaining two patents. The parties thereafter filed and argued a number of motions for summary judgment, and the Court denied the majority of the parties’ motions but granted the Company’s motion to preclude Fairchild from re-arguing validity positions that were rejected in the prior case between the parties. Because the assigned Judge retired at the end of July 2010, the case was re-assigned to a different Judge, and the Court vacated the trial schedule and had the parties provide their input on the appropriate course of action. The Court thereafter set a trial schedule with the jury trial on infringement and validity to begin in July 2011. On April 18, 2011, the Court rescheduled the trial to begin in January 2012, and on June 2, 2011, the Court moved the trial date to April 2012 to permit the parties to address another patent the Company accused Fairchild of infringing. Following a trial in April 2012, the jury returned a verdict finding that Fairchild infringes two of the Company’s patents, that Fairchild has induced others to infringe the Company’s patents, and also upheld the validity of the infringed patents. Of the two remaining counterclaim patents Fairchild asserted in the case, one was found not to be infringed, but the jury found the second patent to be infringed by a limited number of the Company’s products, although the jury further found the Company did not induce infringement by any customers, including customers outside the United States. On March 29, 2013, the District Court denied most of the parties’ post-trial motions on liability but granted the Company’s motion for judgment as a matter of law finding that Fairchild infringed another of the Company’s patents. On April 25, 2013, the Court denied both parties’ motions regarding the unenforceability of each other’s patents. The Company challenged adverse findings on appeal; nevertheless, the Company estimated that even if the verdict on Fairchild’s patent had ultimately been upheld, the sales potentially impacted would have amounted to less than 0.5% of the Company’s revenues. The Company requested an injunction preventing further infringement of its own patents by Fairchild, and Fairchild requested an injunction as well. Following a hearing on the issue in June 2014, the Court denied Fairchild’s request for an injunction against the Company and granted the Company’s request for an injunction against Fairchild. On January 13, 2015, the District Court entered final judgment on the liability and validity issues discussed above, and both parties filed appeals with the Federal Circuit. After briefing was completed, oral argument on the appeal took place in early July 2016, and on December 12, 2016, the Federal Circuit issued its opinion in the appeal, overturning the lone infringement verdict against the Company, finding one of the Company’s patents invalid, and overturning the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement. In view of the Federal Circuit’s rejection of the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement, the Court also vacated the inducement findings and associated injunction against Fairchild and remanded the case for a retrial on inducement, but the underlying validity and infringement findings against Fairchild on those two patents remain intact. At the conclusion of the retrial, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the 
it intends to seek further review of these decisions, with further proceedings expected in the coming months. The PTO also instituted proceedings in response to ON Semiconductor’s eleven petitions filed against patents the Company asserted against ON Semiconductor. The PTO has rejected a number of the Company’s patent claims in the context of all of these ongoing proceedings, and further proceedings and appeals regarding the various IPRs are expected in the coming months as well. Although the validity of many of the Company’s challenged patents has previously been confirmed in the Company’s District Court litigation with Fairchild and in many cases in prior PTO reexamination proceedings as well, and though the Company intends to vigorously defend the validity of its patents, the outcome of the IPR proceedings is uncertain. These PTO proceedings with ON Semiconductor are subject to the Definitive Agreement noted above, whereby the Company and ON are filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties.


item2.txt
Our products bring a number of important benefits to the power-conversion market compared with less advanced alternatives, including reduced component count and design complexity, smaller size, higher reliability and reduced time-to-market. Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficacy of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
•Increase our penetration of the markets we serve. We currently address AC-DC applications with power outputs up to approximately 500 watts, gate-driver applications of approximately ten kilowatts and higher, and motor-drive applications up to approximately 300 watts. Through our research and development efforts, we seek to introduce more advanced products for these markets offering higher levels of integration and performance compared to earlier products. We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products. These tools and services include our PI Expert™ design software, which we offer free of charge, and our transformer-sample service.
Our market-penetration strategy also includes capitalizing on the importance of energy efficiency and renewable energy in the power conversion market. For example, our EcoSmart™ technology drastically reduces the amount of energy consumed by electronic products when they are not in use, helping our customers comply with regulations that seek to curb this so-called “standby” energy consumption. Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, solar and wind energy systems and electric transportation applications.
•Increase the size of our addressable market. Prior to 2010 our addressable market consisted of AC-DC applications with up to about 50 watts of output, a served available market (“SAM”) opportunity of approximately $1.5 billion. Since that time we have expanded our SAM to approximately $4 billion through a variety of means. These include the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families), the introduction of LED-driver products, and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012. In 2016 we introduced the SCALE-iDriverTM family of gate-driver ICs, broadening the range of gate-driver applications we can address. In 2018 we introduced our BridgeSwitch™ motor-driver ICs, as described above.
Also contributing to our SAM expansion has been the emergence of new applications within the power ranges that our products can address. For example, applications such as “smart” utility meters, battery-powered lawn equipment and bicycles, and USB power receptacles (installed alongside traditional AC wall outlets) can incorporate our products. The increased use of electronic intelligence and connectivity in consumer appliances has also enhanced our SAM. Finally, we have enhanced our SAM by increasing the level of integration of our products, which in turn increases their value. For example, our InnoSwitch™ ICs integrate circuitry from the secondary, or low-voltage, side of AC-DC power supplies, whereas earlier product families integrated circuitry only on the primary, or high-voltage side.
Our net revenues were $114.2 million and $110.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $306.2 million and $322.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in the three month period was due primarily to growth in the communications end market, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone chargers. This growth was partially offset by a broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets resulting from global trade disputes. Net revenues decreased in the nine-month period as the broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets outweighed growth in the communications end market.
Total operating expenses were $40.6 million and $39.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $121.8 million and $119.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increases were due primarily to higher salary and related expenses driven by the expansion of our workforce and by annual merit increases; also contributing to the increases were higher expenses related to patent litigation as well as equipment related expenses in support of our product-development efforts. These increases were partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense related to performance-based awards.
Net revenues.  Net revenues consist of revenues from product sales, which are calculated net of returns and allowances. Net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $114.2 million and $306.2 million, respectively, and $110.1 million and $322.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018. The increase in the three month period was due primarily to growth in the communications end market, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone chargers. This growth was partially offset by a broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets resulting from global trade disputes. Net revenues decreased in the nine-month period as the broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets outweighed the growth in the communications end market.
International sales, consisting of sales outside of the United States of America based on “bill to” customer locations, were $111.3 million and $298.1 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and $105.6 million and $310.6 million, respectively, in the corresponding periods of 2018. Although power converters using our products are distributed to end markets worldwide, most are manufactured in Asia. As a result, sales to this region represented 77% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, and 77% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018. We expect international sales, and sales to the Asia region in particular, to continue to account for a large portion of our net revenues in the future.
Operating activities generated cash of $42.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019. Net income for this period was $35.2 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization and deferred income taxes of $15.0 million, $14.3 million, $3.8 million and $1.3 million, respectively. Sources of cash also included a $1.1 million increase in taxes payable and accrued liabilities. These sources of cash were partially offset by a $14.8 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased customer shipments, a $7.9 million increase in inventories reflecting impact of a market slowdown during the first half of the year and anticipation of future demand, a $2.6 million decrease in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments, and a $3.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid legal fees, prepaid taxes and advances to suppliers.
Operating activities generated cash of $65.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Net income for this period was $47.2 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization of $16.1 million, $14.4 million and $4.0 million, respectively. Sources of cash also included a $2.9 million decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of cash receipts and a $2.6 million increase in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments. These sources of cash were partially offset by a $17.1 million increase in inventories, partially reflecting lower-than-normal inventory levels at the beginning of the year, but also driven by our decision to build inventory in order to capitalize on extended lead times and limited availability for certain competing products. Also offsetting the sources of cash was a $2.7 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid legal expenses and advances to suppliers.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. As of September 30, 2019, our primary transactional currency was U.S. dollars; in addition, we hold cash in Swiss francs and euro. We maintain cash denominated in Swiss francs and euro to fund the operations of our Swiss subsidiary. The foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the U.S. dollar versus the Swiss franc and euro is recorded in other income in our condensed consolidated statements of income. 


item4.txt
Management is required to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act, such as this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive 


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


