fls.txt
We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.


item1.txt
CSPi and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security products, managed IT services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
Unless otherwise noted, discussion within these notes to the consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations.
Refer to Note 12 for additional information on discontinued operations.
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
are a single performance obligation in each sale.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.
The lease components include the hardware and software, which are subject to ASC 840.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts.
Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
Variable consideration is immaterial.
Any products sold with right to return exists with the manufacturer.
Managed service contracts contain the right to refund if canceled within 30 days of inception.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.


item2.txt
reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), our revenue recognition policy has changed effective October 1, 2018 and is included in Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
See Note 11 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
On July 31, 2018, we completed the sale of all of the outstanding stock of our Germany division of our TS segment.
The one time gain recorded due to the sale of all the stock of Modcomp GmbH was approximately $16.8 million.
The effective tax rate for the current quarter is 18.7%.
The $0.3 million increase in the U.S. division service revenues was substantially the result of a $0.2 million increase in managed service contracts, an increase in third party maintenance and services revenues of $0.5 million, partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in internal services.
The $0.6 million increase in revenue to Asia is primarily the result of increased sales by our HPP segment of Myricom product to a major customer.
The GM as a percentage of revenue decreased to 23% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, from 24% for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The following table is a summary of the operating results of the Germany division of our TS segment which have been reflected as discontinued operations.


item4.txt
Our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management team supervised and participated in this evaluation.


