fls.txt



item1.txt
CSP Inc. ("CSPi" or "CSPI" or "the Company" or "we" or "our") was incorporated in 1968 and is based in Lowell, Massachusetts.
CSPi and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security products, managed IT services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
Unless otherwise noted, discussion within these notes to the consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations.
Refer to Note 12 for additional information on discontinued operations.
timing.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.
The non-lease component includes the managed services and is subject to ASC 606.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping.
Variable consideration is immaterial.
Any products sold with right to return exists with the manufacturer.
Managed service contracts contain the right to refund if canceled within 30 days of inception.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.


item2.txt
Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
2014‑09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), our revenue recognition policy has changed effective October 1, 2018 and is included in Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
See Note 11 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for effects of initial adoption and Note 3 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 for further details on our revenue recognition policy.
On July 31, 2018, we completed the sale of all of the outstanding stock of our Germany division of our TS segment.
The one time gain recorded due to the sale of all the stock of Modcomp GmbH was approximately $16.8 million.
No income taxes were provided as the transaction was a tax-free exchange in the U.K. Our revenues increased by approximately $1.6 million, or 8%, to $21.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to $20.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The decrease in operating expenses was primarily the result of $0.2 million decrease in our HPP segment.
TS segment revenues increased by $2.5 million, and HPP segment revenues decreased by $0.9 million.
The decrease in HPP services revenues of $0.9 million is primarily attributed to a $0.8 million decrease in royalties on high-speed processing boards related to the E2D program shipped for the three months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The U.S. division service revenues $0.5 million increase was substantially the result of a $0.2 million increase in managed service contracts, an increase in third party maintenance and services revenues of $0.6 million, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in internal services.


item4.txt



