CSPI and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security and managed services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.
Finished goods includes inventory that has been shipped, but for which all revenue recognition criteria has not been met, of approximately $0.2 million and $0.4 million as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
SAB 118 provides for a measurement period beginning in the reporting period that includes the Tax Act’s enactment date and ending when the Company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information needed in order to complete the accounting requirements but in no circumstances should the measurement period extend beyond one year from the enactment date.
The tax expense for the six months ended March 31, 2018 was $974 thousand.Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The decrease to the income tax expense was primarily due to the decrease in operating income.
The decrease in HPP product revenues of $513 thousand is primarily attributed to decreased Multicomputer product shipments.
The decrease in TS segment product revenues was partially offset by an increase in TS segment service revenues of $1.3 million during the period.
The $1.2 million increase in the U.S. division service revenues was substantially the result of a $900 thousand increase in internal services and additional third party maintenance revenues of $300 thousand.
The GM as a percentage of revenue was 22% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, unchanged from the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The overall TS segment gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 20% for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 from 16% for the three month period ended March 31, 2017.
The engineering and development expenses incurred by our HPP segment were $0.8 million and $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.The Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2018.