fls.txt
We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.


item1.txt
CSPi and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security products, managed IT services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
Unless otherwise noted, discussion within these notes to the consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations.
Refer to Note 13 for additional information on discontinued operations.
Effective October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
This note reflects the accounting policy change for revenue starting on the date of adoption.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.
The non-lease component includes the managed services and is subject to ASC 606.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts.
Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
Variable consideration is immaterial.
Any products sold with right to return exists with the manufacturer.
Any products with a standard warranty are treated as a warranty obligation under ASC 460, Guarantees.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
An estimate for professional services is made at the beginning of each contract based on prior experience and monitored throughout the services.


item2.txt
Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
September 30, 2018 in the “Critical Accounting Policies” section contained in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), our revenue recognition policy has changed effective October 1, 2018 and is included in Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
On July 31, 2018, we completed the sale of all of the outstanding stock of our Germany division of our TS segment.
The Modcomp GmbH's results have been recorded as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.
The HPP segment revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 was primarily impacted by lower royalties recognized by approximately $0.5 million on high-speed processing boards during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three month period ended December 31, 2017.
Our income tax expense decreased by approximately $1.2 million to an income tax expense of $2 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2018.


item4.txt
The Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2018.


