fls.txt
We discuss many of these risks and uncertainties in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.


item1.txt
To meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide, CSPI and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security and managed services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
Diluted net income per common share reflects the maximum dilution that would have resulted from the assumed exercise and share repurchase related to dilutive stock options and is computed by dividing net income by the assumed weighted average number of common shares outstanding.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.
Finished goods includes inventory that has been shipped, but for which all revenue recognition criteria has not been met, of approximately $0.1 million and $0.4 million as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
SAB 118 provides for a measurement period beginning in the reporting period that includes the Act’s enactment date and ending when the Company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information needed in order to complete the accounting requirements but in no circumstances should the measurement period extend beyond one year from the enactment date.
During the first quarter ended December 31, 2017, the Company recognized a provision for income taxes of $1.1 million that includes a provisional estimate in the amount of $649 thousand related to the one-time deemed repatriation transition tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings.
This expense has been recorded discretely in the quarter ending December 31, 2017.
The Company has defined benefit and defined contribution plans in the United Kingdom, Germany and the U.S.
Domestically, the Company also provides for officer death benefits through post-retirement plans to certain officers.
The Company's pension plan in the United Kingdom is the only plan with plan assets.
The plan assets consist of an investment in a commingled fund which in turn comprises a diversified mix of assets including corporate equity securities, government securities and corporate debt securities.
The following table lists customers from which the Company derived revenues in excess of 10% of total revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017, and 2016.
Accounts receivable from customer D totaled approximately $2.3 million, or 11%, of consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.


item2.txt
Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Operating income increased by $0.1 million from an operating loss of $102 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2016 to operating income of $7 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of a $681 thousand increase in gross profit partially offset by an increase of $572 thousand in higher operating expenses.
Our income tax expense increased by approximately $1.1 million to $1.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to an income tax benefit of $15 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2016.
The increase in HPP product revenues is primarily attributed to increased Myricom product shipments partially offset by lower Multicomputer product shipments and parts sales for the period.
The $2.1 million increase in revenues is primarily attributed to increased revenues by our TS segment.
The $1.8 million increase in revenue to Europe is primarily the result of increased sales by our TS segment U.K. division to U.S. division multi-national customer.
The overall HPP segment gross margin as a percentage of sales decreased to 59% for the period.
The overall TS segment gross margin as a percentage of sales increase was primarily due to an 8% increase in service margins as a percentage of TS segment revenues, which is substantially due to having improved margins in our U.K. and Germany divisions.
The current period expenses were primarily for Myricom product engineering expenses incurred in connection with the development of the new Myricom ARIA security products.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R.


item4.txt
The Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2017.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.


