The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 1, 2019, the Consolidated Statements of Operations, the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings and the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 and August 26, 2018 and the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the 26 weeks then ended have been prepared by Park Aerospace Corp., formerly Park Electrochemical Corp. (the “Company”), without audit.
On July 16, 2019, the Company filed with the State of New York Department of State a Certificate of Amendment of its Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, changing its name to “Park Aerospace Corp.” after the Board of Directors of the Company approved such amendment and the shareholders of the Company approved such amendment at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
On July 16, 2019, the Company also filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Kansas, a Certificate of Ownership and Merger whereby the Company’s Park Aerospace Technologies Corp. wholly owned subsidiary located at the Newton, Kansas Airport was merged into the Company and ceased to exist.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access at the measurement date.
Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
The fair value of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate their carrying value due to their short-term nature.
The Company’s non-financial assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include goodwill and any long-lived assets written down to fair value.
To measure fair value of such assets, the Company uses Level 3 inputs consisting of techniques including an income approach and a market approach.
The income approach is based on a discounted cash flow analysis and calculates the fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting the after-tax cash flows to a present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate.Park Aerospace Corp., formerly Park Electrochemical Corp., (“Park” or the “Company”) develops and manufactures solution and hot-melt advanced composite materials used to produce composite structures for the global aerospace markets.
Park’s advanced composite materials are used to produce primary and secondary structures for jet engines, large and regional transport aircraft, military aircraft, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs commonly referred to as “drones”), business jets, general aviation aircraft and rotary wing aircraft.
On July 16, 2019, the Company filed with the State of New York Department of State a Certificate of Amendment of its Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, changing its name to “Park Aerospace Corp.” after the Board of Directors of the Company approved such amendment and the shareholders of the Company approved such amendment at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
The Company's total net sales from continuing operations in the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 were $13.7 million and $28.7 million, respectively, compared to $11.2 million and $21.6 million, respectively, in the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended August 26, 2018.
The Company’s earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and net earnings from continuing operations increased by 99% and 12%, respectively, in the 13 weeks ended September 1, 2019 compared to the 13 weeks ended August 26, 2018 primarily as a result of higher sales and higher interest income, partially offset by a higher tax provision compared to the prior year’s comparable period.
 The Company’s earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and net earnings from continuing operations increased by 166% and 91%, respectively, in the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 compared to the 26 weeks ended August 26, 2018 primarily as a result of higher sales and higher interest income, partially offset by a higher tax provision compared to the prior year’s comparable period.