fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Jabil Inc. (the “Company”) for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017.
Results for the six months ended February 28, 2018 are not necessarily an indication of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year ending August 31, 2018.
The Company calculates its basic earnings per share by dividing net income attributable to Jabil Inc. by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
As a result of the modification, 0.8 million awards vested during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, which resulted in approximately $24.9 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized.
As of February 28, 2018, 8.2 million shares had been repurchased for $225.0 million and $225.0 million remains available under the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.
During the six months ended February 28, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 51% of its net revenue and 74 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which the Company would transact with third parties.
Total foreign net revenue represented 91.9% and 92.1% of net revenue during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively, compared to 90.9% and 91.7% of net revenue during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2017.
(2) The Senior Notes are the Company’s senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations.
Fees include a facility fee based on the revolving credit commitments of the lenders and a letter of credit fee based on the amount of outstanding letters of credit.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% senior notes, were approximately $424.4 million, $517.5 million and $480.2 million, respectively, as of February 28, 2018.
The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.
The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs.
Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017 were not material.
The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, digital home, healthcare, industrial and energy, mobility, networking and telecommunications, packaging, point of sale and printing industries.
We derived a substantial majority, 91.9% and 92.1%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively.
During the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, we recognized $4.0 million and $11.4 million of expenses, net of insurance proceeds of $6.1 million and $16.4 million, respectively.
As we continue to assess the impact to our operations, we may incur additional costs in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
(1) The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators.
(2) During the three months ended August 31, 2017, the decrease in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of sales and collections activity.
(3) During the three months ended February 28, 2018, the increase in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the increase in inventories to support expected sales levels in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 along with overall increased demand.
(4) During the three months ended November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter due to increased demand in the mobility business as well as the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 38% due to a 36% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and a 2% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business.
EMS segment revenues increased 7% primarily due to a 3% increase in revenues due to a new customer and from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, a 3% increase in revenues from customers within our capital equipment business, a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our digital home business and a 1% increase in revenues from customers in our automotive and transportation business.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 24% due to a 23% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and a 1% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Certain instruments with respect to long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries are not filed herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K since the total amount of securities authorized under each such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.


part2.txt
Item 1.


