fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Jabil Inc. (the “Company”) for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017.
The Company calculates its basic earnings per share by dividing net income attributable to Jabil Inc. by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
As a result of the modification, 0.8 million awards vested during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, which resulted in approximately $24.9 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
As of November 30, 2017, 3.2 million shares had been repurchased for $93.2 million and $356.7 million remains available under the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 51% of its net revenue and 74 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
(2)  The Senior Notes are the Company’s senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 8.250%, 5.625% and 4.700% senior notes, were approximately $405.6 million, $431.2 million and $525.3 million, respectively, as of November 30, 2017.
The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.
The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs.
Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016 were not material.
The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.
The special purpose entity in the foreign asset-backed securitization program is a separate bankruptcy-remote entity whose assets would be first available to satisfy the creditor claims of the unaffiliated financial institution.
The Company is deemed the primary beneficiary of this special purpose entity as the Company has both the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive the benefits that could potentially be significant to the entity from the transfer of the trade accounts receivable into the special purpose entity.
Accordingly, the special purpose entities associated with these asset-backed securitization programs are included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
(1) For the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, the amount represented proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving-period transfers as there were no new transfers during the period.


item2.txt
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, digital home, healthcare, industrial and energy, mobility, networking and telecommunications, packaging, point of sale and printing industries.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, we recognized $7.4 million of expenses, net of insurance proceeds of $10.3 million.
As we continue to assess the impact to our operations, we may incur additional costs in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
(1)  The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators.
(2)  During the three months ended August 31, 2017, the decrease in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of sales and collections activity.
(3)  During the three months ended November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter due to increased demand in the mobility business as well as the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended May 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 13% due to a 12% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and a 1% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare and packaging businesses.
EMS segment revenues increased 6% primarily due to a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our digital home business, a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our industrial and energy business, a 1% increase in revenues from customers in our automotive and transportation business and a 1% increase spread across various industries within the EMS segment.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $293.1 million (5.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $214.1 million (4.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2016.


item3.txt



item4.txt
10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.


part2.txt
Item 1.


