fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock unit awards (“restricted stock units”) and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
During the nine months ended May 31, 2019, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 43% of its net revenue and 82 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $5.0 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018, and $2.9 million and $21.4 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $416.5 million, $517.9 million and $480.1 million, respectively, as of May 31, 2019.
The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under a foreign asset-backed securitization program, a North American asset-back securitization program and uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”).
Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018 were not material.
The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.
Transfers of the receivables under the programs are accounted for as sales and, accordingly, net receivables sold under the programs are excluded from accounts receivable on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
2016-15 (“ASU 2016-15”) described in Note 14, New Accounting Guidance, resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable (i.e. beneficial interest) on asset-backed securitization transactions.
In addition, the beneficial interest of $162.2 million and $1.5 billion for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, obtained in exchange for securitized receivables are reported as non-cash investing activities.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million.
The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution.
Prior to the amendment, any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring was recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which was paid from available cash as payments on the receivables were collected.


item2.txt
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
During the three months ended May 31, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended February 28, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to lower materials purchases during the quarter and timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16 — “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
Specifically, the EMS segment revenues increased 26% primarily due to (i) a 9% increase in revenues from new customers within our cloud business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (iii) an 8% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business and (iv) a 6% increase in revenues from existing customers within our print and retail business.
Specifically, the EMS segment revenues increased 27% primarily due to (i) a 9% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from new customers within our cloud business, (iii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 5% increase in revenues from existing customers within our print and retail business.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


