Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The declaration and payment of future dividends by the Company is subject to the determination of the Company’s Board of Directors (the Board), in its sole discretion, after considering various factors, including the Company’s financial condition, historical and forecasted operating results, and available cash flow, as well as any applicable laws and contractual covenants and any other relevant factors. The Company’s practice regarding payment of dividends may be modified at any time and from time to time.
A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the ability to achieve success in the Company’s business strategy by, among other things, ensuring that any new offerings address the needs of a rapidly changing market while not adversely affecting the demand for the Company’s traditional products or the Company’s profitability to an extent greater than anticipated, enabling the Company’s sales force to accelerate growth of sales to new customers and expand sales with existing customers, including sales outside of the Company’s renewal cycle and to a broadening set of purchasers outside of traditional information technology operations (with such growth and expansion at levels sufficient to offset any decline in revenue and/or sales in the Company’s Mainframe Solutions segment and in certain mature product lines in the Company’s Enterprise Solutions segment), effectively managing the strategic shift in the Company’s business model to develop more easily installed software, provide additional Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offerings and refocus the Company’s professional services and education engagements on those engagements that are connected to new product sales, without affecting the Company’s financial performance to an extent greater than anticipated, and effectively managing the Company’s pricing and other go-to-market strategies, as well as improving the Company’s brand, technology and innovation awareness in the marketplace; the failure to innovate or adapt to technological changes and introduce new software products and services in a timely manner; competition in product and service offerings and pricing; the ability of the Company’s products to remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments, platforms or third party products; global economic factors or political events beyond the Company’s control and other business and legal risks associated with global operations; the failure to expand partner programs and sales of the Company’s solutions by the Company’s partners; the ability to retain and attract qualified professionals; general economic conditions and credit constraints, or unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region, business or industry sector; the ability to successfully integrate acquired companies and products into the Company’s existing business; risks associated with sales to government customers; breaches of the Company’s data center, network and software products, and the IT environments of the Company’s business partners and customers; the ability to adequately manage, evolve and protect the Company’s information systems, infrastructure and processes; the failure to renew license agreement transactions on a satisfactory basis; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; changes in generally accepted accounting principles, which includes adoption of revenue recognition requirements under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606; discovery of errors or omissions in the Company’s software products or documentation and potential product liability claims; the failure to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights and source code; access to software licensed from third parties; risks associated with the use of software from open source code sources; third-party claims of intellectual property infringement and/or royalty payments; fluctuations in the number, terms and duration of the Company’s license agreements, as well as the timing of orders from customers and partners; potential tax liabilities; changes in market conditions or the Company’s credit ratings; events or circumstances that would require the Company to record an impairment charge relating to the Company’s goodwill or capitalized software and other intangible assets balances; successful and secure outsourcing of various functions to third parties; and other factors described more fully in this Form 10-Q and the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or should the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from the forward-looking information described in this Form 10-Q as believed, planned, anticipated, expected, estimated, targeted or similarly identified. The Company does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, the Company’s financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements. References in this Form 10-Q to fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 are to the Company’s fiscal years ending on March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We have a broad portfolio of software solutions that we use to execute our business strategy and organize our offerings in Enterprise Solutions, Mainframe Solutions and Services operating segments.
•Agile Management enables customers to plan, deliver and manage information technology (IT) and business services for their customers. Our solutions and Agile services enable customers to improve delivery time on projects, reduce costs and optimize resources.
•DevOps is adjacent to Agile Management and is comprised of a range of solutions that allow customers to efficiently deliver and manage applications and IT infrastructure. With our portfolio of solutions, customers can reduce the delivery time of new applications, increase the frequency of new releases and dramatically improve quality. Our solutions enable complete end-to-end automation, which minimizes downtime and accelerates the application delivery process.
•Security includes a comprehensive set of solutions that address the global imperative to minimize the risk of data breaches and alleviate the pressures faced by Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs) as a result of increasing information security regulations. Our solutions facilitate digital transformation by providing secure customer experiences, enabling a collaborative enterprise, empowering a digital workforce and securing the ‘Internet of Things.’ CA’s Security suite simplifies the complexity of managing the trusted digital relationships among people, devices, and applications both on-premise and in the cloud. Our solutions help to eliminate vulnerabilities during the development and deployment chain, which helps to lower cost and improve time-to-market.
•DevOps solutions help customers increase the innovation velocity for mainframe applications and teams. We support agile development processes and modern languages, as well as tools for development, testing and deployment that support collaboration across the software development lifecycle and across mobile to mainframe teams.
•Operations Intelligence and Automation solutions help customers adopt machine learning and bring more intelligence and automation to their mainframe operations. With machine learning, operations teams can proactively prevent problems, fix issues faster and get more done with fewer resources. We provide a unified view of the IBM z Systems performance across the infrastructure stack, including applications, middleware, networks, systems, storage and data.
Our Services help customers reach their IT and business goals primarily by enabling the rapid implementation and adoption of our mainframe and enterprise solutions. Our professional services team consists of experienced professionals who provide a variety of services, such as consulting, implementation, application management services, education and support services, to both commercial and government customers.
•Drive organic innovation. Our product development strategy is built around key growth areas, where we are focused on innovating and delivering differentiated products and solutions across both distributed and mainframe platforms.
•Expand relationships with our global customer base and address opportunities with new and underserved customers. We are focused on maintaining and expanding the strong relationships with our established customer base, and will proactively target growth with other potential customers that we do not currently serve.
•Execute strategic and disciplined technology acquisitions. We intend to supplement our organic innovation efforts with key technology acquisitions that are within or adjacent to our core areas of focus. We also focus on organically developing nascent technologies from companies we have acquired to endow them with the necessary interoperability, resilience and security to operate at scale in the large, heterogeneous IT environments utilized by our customers.
•Total bookings decreased primarily due to a decline in renewal bookings. Excluding our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, total bookings decreased by a percentage in the high teens.
•Renewal bookings decreased by a percentage in the high teens primarily due to the decline in Mainframe Solutions renewal bookings, which was attributable to the timing of our renewal portfolio. This decline in Mainframe Solutions renewal bookings was partially offset by renewal bookings associated with our Automic and Veracode acquisitions. Excluding our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, renewal bookings decreased by a percentage in the mid-20s.
•Mainframe Solutions new product sales decreased by a percentage in the low single digits primarily due to a lower level of renewals as discussed above.
•We expect fiscal 2018 renewal bookings to decrease by a percentage in the high teens compared with fiscal 2017 primarily due to the large system integrator transaction that occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 with an incremental contract value in excess of $475 million.
Price changes do not have a material effect on revenue in the period they become effective as a result of our ratable subscription model.
Within bookings, we also consider the yield on our renewals. We define “renewal yield” as the percentage of the renewable value of a prior contract (i.e., the maintenance value and, in the case of non-perpetual licenses, the license value) realized in current period bookings. The renewable value of a prior contract is an estimate affected by various factors including contractual renewal terms, price increases and other conditions. Price increases are not considered as part of the renewable value of the prior period contract. We estimate the aggregate renewal yield for a quarter based on a review of material transactions generally representing a majority of the dollar value of renewals during the current period. There may be no correlation between year-over-year changes in bookings and year-over-year changes in renewal yield, since renewal yield is based on the renewable value of contracts of various durations, most of which are longer than one year.
The license and maintenance agreements that contribute to subscription and maintenance bookings represent binding payment commitments by customers over periods that range generally from three to five years, although in certain cases customer commitments can be for longer or shorter periods. These current period bookings are often renewals of prior contracts that also had various durations, usually from three to five years. The amount of new subscription and maintenance bookings recorded in a period is affected by the volume, duration and value of contracts renewed during that period. Subscription and maintenance bookings typically increase in each consecutive quarter during a fiscal year, with the first quarter having the least bookings and the fourth quarter having the most bookings. However, subscription and maintenance bookings may not always follow the pattern of increasing in consecutive quarters during a fiscal year, and the quarter-to-quarter differences in subscription and maintenance bookings may vary. Given the varying durations and dollar amounts of the contracts being renewed, year-over-year comparisons of bookings are not always indicative of the overall bookings trend.
Additionally, period-to-period changes in subscription and maintenance bookings do not necessarily correlate to changes in cash receipts. The contribution to current period revenue from subscription and maintenance bookings from any single license or maintenance agreement is relatively small, since revenue is recognized ratably over the applicable term for these agreements.
Revenue
Total Revenue
Total revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to an increase in software fees and other revenue and, to a lesser extent, an increase in subscription and maintenance revenue. During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, total revenue included $68 million from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, primarily included in software fees and other revenue. Excluding the revenue generated from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, total revenue increased primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange effect of $19 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, and, to a lesser extent, an increase in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products.
Total revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2017 primarily due to an increase in software fees and other revenue. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, total revenue included $182 million from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, primarily included in software fees and other revenue. Excluding the revenue generated from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, total revenue decreased primarily due to a decline in our Mainframe Solutions revenue and, to a lesser extent, a decline in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis. There was a favorable foreign exchange effect of $17 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
In general, we treat acquired technologies as organic in the quarter of their one year anniversary date. Automic was acquired during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 and, as such, will be treated as organic in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. Since Veracode was acquired on the last day of fiscal 2017, it will be treated as organic in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Subscription and maintenance revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to $21 million of subscription and maintenance revenue generated from our Automic acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. There was a favorable foreign exchange effect of $14 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Subscription and maintenance revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due to $54 million of subscription and maintenance revenue generated from our Automic acquisition in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, partially offset by a decline in Mainframe Solutions revenue (refer to “Performance of Segments” below). There was a favorable foreign exchange effect of $12 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Professional services revenue primarily includes revenue derived from product implementation, consulting, customer education and customer training services. Professional services revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to $6 million of professional services revenue generated from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Software fees and other revenue consists of revenue that is recognized on an upfront basis and also includes our SaaS revenue. Upfront revenue includes revenue associated with enterprise solutions products sold on an upfront basis directly by our sales force and through transactions with distributors and volume partners, value-added resellers and exclusive representatives. Our SaaS revenue is recognized as the services are provided, generally ratably over the term of the SaaS arrangement, rather than upfront.
Software fees and other revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively, primarily due to software fees and other revenue generated from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions of $41 million and $107 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively. Excluding the software fees and other revenue generated from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, software fees and other revenue decreased primarily due to a decline in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis.
Total Revenue by Geography
Revenue in the United States for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to our Automic and Veracode acquisitions. Excluding the favorable foreign exchange effect of $19 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, international revenue increased compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 due to our Automic acquisition.
Revenue in the United States for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due to our Automic and Veracode acquisitions. Excluding the favorable foreign exchange effect of $17 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, international revenue increased compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due to our Automic acquisition. As described above, excluding the revenue generated from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, revenue in the United States and international revenue would have decreased.
Expenses
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to $84 million of costs from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, which were mainly personnel-related, in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Amortization of Capitalized Software Costs
Amortization of capitalized software costs for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively, primarily due to an increase in amortization expense associated with purchased software products acquired from Automic and Veracode, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of our internally developed software products. With our adoption of the Agile development methodology in fiscal 2014, amortization expense of internally developed software products has decreased, since we have not capitalized any internally developed software costs.
Selling and Marketing
Selling and marketing expenses include the costs relating to our sales force, partners, corporate and business marketing and customer training programs. Selling and marketing expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017 due to costs from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions of $34 million and $91 million, which were mainly personnel-related, in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively. These increases were partially offset by decreases in non-acquisition-related costs of $20 million and $64 million, respectively, which primarily included personnel-related and commission costs.
General and administrative expenses include the costs of corporate functions, including our executive leadership and administration groups, finance, legal, human resources, corporate communications and other costs such as provisions for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively, due to costs from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, which were mainly personnel-related.
Product Development and Enhancements
For the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, product development and enhancements expense represented 14% and 14%, respectively, of total revenue. For the third quarter of fiscal 2018, product development and enhancements expense increased compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 due to costs from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, which were mainly personnel-related.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, product development and enhancements expense represented 15% and 14% respectively, of total revenue. For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, product development and enhancements expense increased compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due to costs from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, which were mainly personnel-related.
For the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, depreciation and amortization of other intangible assets increased compared with the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively, primarily due to an increase in amortization expense associated with other intangible assets acquired from Automic and Veracode.
Other (Gains) Expenses, Net
During the first nine months of fiscal 2017, other (gains) expenses, net included a $28 million legal settlement expense related to a settlement agreement that was then being negotiated with the U.S. government pertaining to our General Services Administration (GSA) schedule contract. The settlement agreement was finalized and the settlement amount was paid in full in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.
Interest Expense, Net
Interest expense, net for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively, as a result of interest associated with our 3.600% Senior Notes due August 2022 and our 4.700% Senior Notes due March 2027 both issued during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.
Income tax expense for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $375 million and $509 million, respectively, compared with income tax expense for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017 of $84 million and $257 million, respectively. For the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, we recorded a net discrete tax expense of $310 million and $302 million, respectively. Of these amounts, $318 million resulted from preliminary estimates of the impact of changes in tax law in the United States resulting from the Tax Act.
As more fully disclosed in Note A, “Accounting Policies,” within the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, upon adoption of Accounting Standard Codification Topic 606 (Topic 606), a significant portion of our revenue backlog (i.e., deferred revenue and future billings on committed contracts) relating to the license component of customer contracts at March 31, 2018 under existing GAAP will not be recognized as revenue in future periods but instead will be included as part of the cumulative effect adjustment within retained earnings upon adoption. Such cumulative effect adjustment will primarily result from (i) the significant reduction in deferred revenue relating to the license component of customer contracts as mentioned above, (ii) the establishment of a significant contract asset related to our contractual right to consideration for completed performance obligations not yet billed or collected (i.e., license revenue recognized in advance of billings), (iii) the increase in deferred tax liabilities arising from the increase in contract assets, and (iv) the increase in income taxes payable from both the increase in contract assets as a result of the Tax Act and the portion of deferred revenue included in the cumulative effect adjustment that has not been previously included as taxable income on a tax return.
Performance of Segments 
Our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments are comprised of our software business organized by the nature of our software offerings and the platforms on which the products operate. Our Services segment is comprised of product implementation, consulting, customer education and customer training services, including those directly related to the Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions software that we sell to our customers.
Mainframe Solutions revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 due to a favorable foreign exchange effect. Mainframe Solutions operating margin for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to a decrease in corporate overhead costs.
Enterprise Solutions revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively, primarily due to revenue generated from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions of $62 million and $161 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively. The revenue generated from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was partially offset by a decline in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis. Enterprise Solutions operating margin for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased compared with the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively, primarily due to costs associated with our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, which were mainly personnel-related.
Services revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to $6 million of professional services revenue generated from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Operating margin for Services for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related costs as a result of severance actions during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 and, to a lesser extent, higher margins from services associated with our Automic and Veracode acquisitions.
Refer to Note M, “Segment Information,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Third Quarter Comparison Fiscal 2018 Versus Fiscal 2017
First Nine Months Comparison Fiscal 2018 Versus Fiscal 2017 
Our cash and cash equivalent balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with 66% held in our subsidiaries outside the United States at December 31, 2017. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $2,971 million at December 31, 2017, representing an increase of $200 million from the March 31, 2017 balance of $2,771 million. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, there was a $148 million favorable translation effect from foreign exchange rates on cash held outside the United States in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
We continue to expect domestic cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and borrowings to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and our investing and financing activities, including, among other things, the payment of regular quarterly dividends, compliance with our debt repayment schedules, repurchases of our common stock and the funding for capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. In addition, we continue to expect foreign cash, cash equivalents and cash flows from foreign operations to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and investing activities, including, among other things, the funding of capital expenditures, acquisitions and research and development, for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. However, following the enactment of the new Tax Act, we are currently re-evaluating our plans to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings outside the U.S. with a view to maximize our return on investments.
Under our subscription and maintenance agreements, customers generally make installment payments over the term of the agreement, often with at least one payment due at contract execution, for the right to use our software products and receive product support, software fixes and new products when available. The timing and actual amounts of cash received from committed customer installment payments under any specific agreement can be affected by several factors, including the time value of money and the customer’s credit rating. Often, the amount received is the result of direct negotiations with the customer when establishing pricing and payment terms. In certain instances, the customer negotiates a price for a single upfront installment payment and seeks its own internal or external financing sources. In other instances, we may assist the customer by arranging financing on the customer’s behalf through a third-party financial institution.
Amounts billed or collected as a result of a single installment for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, rather than being invoiced and collected over the life of the license agreement, are reflected in the liability section of our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as “Deferred revenue (billed or collected).” Amounts received from either a customer or a third-party financial institution that are attributable to later years of a license agreement have a positive impact on billings and cash provided by operating activities in the current period. Accordingly, to the extent these collections are attributable to the later years of a license agreement, billings and cash provided by operating activities during the license’s later years will be lower than if the payments were received over the license term. We are unable to predict with certainty the amount of cash to be collected from single installments for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, under new or renewed license agreements to be executed in future periods.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2018, gross receipts related to single installments for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, were $36 million compared with $231 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2017. This decrease was primarily due to a lower level of renewals, including the reduction in bookings from financial services companies, which was attributable to the timing of our renewal portfolio compared with the year-ago period. For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, gross receipts related to single installments for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, were $310 million compared with $313 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
In any quarter, we may receive payments in advance of the contractually committed date on which the payments were otherwise due. In limited circumstances, we may offer discounts to customers to ensure payment in the current period of invoices that have been billed, but might not otherwise be paid until a subsequent period because of payment terms. Historically, any such discounts have not been material.
Amounts due from customers from our subscription licenses are offset by deferred revenue related to these license agreements, leaving no or minimal net carrying value on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets for those amounts. The fair value of these amounts may exceed or be less than this carrying value, but cannot be practically assessed, since there is no existing market for a pool of customer receivables with contractual commitments similar to those owned by us. The actual fair value may not be known until these amounts are sold, securitized or collected. Although these customer license agreements commit the customer to payment under a fixed schedule, to the extent amounts are not yet due and payable by the customer, the agreements are considered executory in nature due to our ongoing commitment to provide maintenance and unspecified future software products as part of the agreement terms.
The 5% decrease in billings backlog at December 31, 2017 compared with March 31, 2017 was primarily due to a lower level of bookings during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Excluding the favorable effect of foreign exchange, billings backlog decreased 7% at December 31, 2017 compared with March 31, 2017. The 3% decrease in billings backlog at December 31, 2017 compared with December 31, 2016 was primarily due to a lower level of bookings during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Excluding the favorable effect of foreign exchange, billings backlog decreased 5% at December 31, 2017 compared with December 31, 2016.
The decrease in expected future cash collections at December 31, 2017 compared with March 31, 2017 was primarily driven by a decrease in billings backlog as described above, as well as a decrease in trade accounts receivable, net due to a decrease in billings. The increase in expected future cash collections at December 31, 2017 compared with December 31, 2016 was primarily driven by an increase in trade accounts receivable, net.
The 7% decrease in total revenue backlog at December 31, 2017 compared with March 31, 2017 was primarily due to a lower level of bookings during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Excluding the favorable effect of foreign exchange, total revenue backlog decreased 9% at December 31, 2017 compared with March 31, 2017. The 1% increase in total revenue backlog at December 31, 2017 compared with December 31, 2016 was primarily due to the favorable effect of foreign exchange. Excluding the favorable effect of foreign exchange, total revenue backlog decreased 2% at December 31, 2017 compared with December 31, 2016 primarily due to the timing of our renewal portfolio.
Current revenue backlog, which is our revenue to be recognized within the next 12 months, was generally consistent at December 31, 2017 compared with March 31, 2017. Excluding the favorable effect of foreign exchange, current revenue backlog decreased 2% at December 31, 2017 compared with March 31, 2017 primarily due to a decrease in total bookings during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Current revenue backlog increased 8% at December 31, 2017 compared with December 31, 2016. Excluding the favorable effect of foreign exchange, current revenue backlog increased 5% at December 31, 2017 compared with December 31, 2016 primarily due to our Automic and Veracode acquisitions.
Third Quarter Comparison Fiscal 2018 Versus Fiscal 2017
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $315 million, representing a decrease of $202 million compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash collections from billings of $153 million attributable to lower single installment collections and an increase in vendor disbursements and payroll of $41 million compared with the year-ago period.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $13 million compared with $62 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2017. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions and purchased software of $47 million compared with the year-ago period.
Net cash used in financing activities for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $164 million compared with $93 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2017. The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to an increase in common stock repurchases of $53 million and an increase in net debt borrowings from our notional pooling arrangement of $15 million compared with the year-ago period.
First Nine Months Comparison Fiscal 2018 Versus Fiscal 2017
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $650 million, representing a decrease of $8 million compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2017. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in vendor disbursements and payroll of $160 million attributable to disbursements from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions and an increase in other disbursements, net of $15 million, offset by an increase in cash collections from billings of $124 million attributable to collections from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions and a decrease in income tax payments, net of $43 million compared with the year-ago period.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $51 million compared with $79 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2017. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions and purchased software of $33 million compared with the year-ago period.
Debt Obligations
In June 2017, we amended our revolving credit facility to extend the termination date from June 2019 to June 2022. Our revolving credit facility provides a maximum committed amount available of $1 billion. The facility also provides us with an option to increase the available credit by an amount up to $500 million. This option is subject to certain conditions and the agreement of the facility lenders. At December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
Other Indebtedness
Effect of Exchange Rate Changes
There was a $148 million favorable translation effect on our cash balances for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 predominantly due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro (13%), the British pound sterling (8%), the Israeli shekel (5%) and the Canadian dollar (6%).
There was a $151 million unfavorable translation effect on our cash balances in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 predominantly due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro (8%) and the British pound sterling (14%), partially offset by the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real (10%).
New Accounting Pronouncements
