Effective April 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 utilizing the modified retrospective method. As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented. See accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details.
Effective April 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 utilizing the modified retrospective method. As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented. See accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details.
Effective April 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 utilizing the modified retrospective method. As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented. See accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details.
Effective April 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 utilizing the modified retrospective method. As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented. See accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details.
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 270, for interim financial information and in accordance with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements and therefore should be read in conjunction with the Company’s consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 (“2018 Form 10-K”). In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
Operating results for the three months ended June 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019.
At June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the total amount of restricted cash included in “Other noncurrent assets, net” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was approximately $1 million and $2 million, respectively. Restricted cash was included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period amounts shown in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, creating new ASC Topic 606 (“Topic 606”) that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP. Topic 606 was adopted by the Company effective April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. Reporting periods prior to the adoption of Topic 606 were presented in accordance with ASC Topic 605 (“Topic 605”). As a result of adopting Topic 606, the Company now recognizes revenue for the license component of all its on-premise software arrangements at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract. The Company reflected the impact of the changes at transition with a cumulative increase of approximately $2,104 million to the opening balance of retained earnings. Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” and Note 3, “Impact of Adopting Topic 606,” for a discussion of the changes in the Company’s policies for revenue recognition and commissions, and the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting Topic 606. Refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for policies in accordance with Topic 605.
In October 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-16 (“ASU 2016-16”), Intra-Equity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory (Topic 740), which is intended to eliminate diversity in practice and provide a more accurate depiction of the tax consequences on intercompany asset transfers (excluding inventory). ASU 2016-16 requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences on intercompany asset transfers (excluding inventory) at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under current GAAP. ASU 2016-16 was adopted by the Company when effective in first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective method of adoption. The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 (“ASU 2016-02”), Leases (Topic 842), with amendments in 2018, requiring a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet for leases with accounting lease terms of more than 12 months. ASU 2016-02 will replace most existing lease accounting guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective. The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the consolidated statements of operations. ASU 2016-02 will be effective for the Company’s first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and requires the modified retrospective method of adoption, with an option to recognize the cumulative effect of applying the new standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. Early adoption is permitted. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 when effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Although the Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, the Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-04 (“ASU 2017-04”), Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (Topic 350), which is intended to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill. ASU 2017-04 eliminates Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test requiring the assessment of fair value of individual assets and liabilities of a reporting unit to measure goodwill impairments. Upon adoption of this new standard, goodwill impairments will be the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its fair value. ASU 2017-04 will be effective for the Company’s first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and requires a prospective method of adoption. Early adoption is permitted. Although the Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption of ASU 2017-04, it does not currently expect the adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In August 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-12 (“ASU 2017-12”), Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities (Topic 815), which is intended to improve the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of risk management activities in financial statements. ASU 2017-12 makes certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current GAAP. ASU 2017-12 will be effective for the Company’s first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and requires a prospective method of adoption for the amended presentation and disclosure guidance. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption and the effect that ASU 2017-12 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In accordance with Topic 606, the Company accounts for a customer contract when both parties have approved the contract and are committed to perform their respective obligations, each party’s rights can be identified, payment terms can be identified, the contract has commercial substance, and it is probable the Company will collect substantially all of the consideration to which it is entitled. Revenue is recognized when, or as, performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of a promised product or service to a customer.
The Company’s products and services can be broadly categorized as perpetual licenses to use software, term-based licenses for Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) and on-premise use of software, maintenance for perpetual and term-based on-premise licenses, and professional services. The Company’s software licenses and maintenance are for mainframe, enterprise, and SaaS computing environments.
Material rights
Contracts with customers may include material rights which are also performance obligations. Material rights primarily arise when the contract gives the customer the right to renew or receive products or services at a discounted price in the future. Revenue allocated to material rights is recognized when the customer exercises the right or the right expires. If exercised by the customer, revenue is classified consistent with the products or services obtained through the exercise of the right. If expired, revenue is classified consistent with the products or services in the contract that gave rise to the material right.
Arrangements with multiple performance obligations
The Company’s contracts generally contain more than one of the products and services listed above, each of which is separately accounted for as a distinct performance obligation.
If the arrangement contains professional services and other products or services, the Company first allocates to the professional service obligation a portion of the total contract consideration equal to the standalone selling price of professional services that is observed from consistently priced standalone sales. The Company allocates the remaining consideration among the other products and services in the contract on a relative standalone selling price basis.
The standalone selling price for perpetual and on-premise term licenses, which are always sold with maintenance, is the price for the combined license and maintenance bundle. The amount assigned to the license and maintenance bundle is separated into license and maintenance amounts using the respective standalone selling prices represented by the value relationship between the software license and maintenance.
When two or more contracts are entered into at or near the same time with the same customer, the Company evaluates the facts and circumstances associated with the negotiation of those contracts. Where the contracts are negotiated as a package, the Company will account for them as a single arrangement and allocate the consideration for the combined contracts among the performance obligations accordingly.
The value relationship the Company uses to allocate consideration between the license and maintenance performance obligations is derived from the observable relationship of the selling price of a standalone perpetual license maintenance renewal to the related perpetual license fee, which is generally 20% of the net license fee for one year of maintenance. The Company separates the license and maintenance performance obligations of a term license and maintenance bundle using the same observable value relationship as in a perpetual license and maintenance bundle because the nature of the maintenance performance obligation and its value relationship with the right to use the software were determined to be similar.
The Company separately determines the standalone selling prices by geographic region, distribution channel and by volume when the pricing strategies include volume purchase discounts.
The Company also estimates the standalone selling prices of its material rights, which primarily include contractually stated amounts that the customer can use to acquire additional products and services. The Company estimates the value of these rights by considering the stated amount and the likelihood of the customer exercising its right. In addition, an option to purchase or receive additional products or services at a discounted price is estimated as the incremental discount the customer would obtain when exercising the option and the likelihood that the option would be exercised.
Other policies and judgments
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment within 30 to 60 days of the invoice. In certain arrangements, the Company receives payment from a customer either before or after the performance obligation has been satisfied, however, the Company’s contracts generally do not contain a significant financing component.
The Company may modify contracts to offer customers additional products or services. The additional products and services will generally be considered distinct from those products or services transferred to the customer before the modification and will generally be accounted for as a separate contract. The Company evaluates whether the price for the additional products and services reflects the standalone selling price adjusted as appropriate for facts and circumstances applicable to that contract. In determining whether an adjustment is appropriate, the Company evaluates whether the incremental consideration is consistent with the prices previously paid by the customer or similar customers.
The Company reduces transaction price for an estimate of returns that is based on historical data.
The difference in the opening and closing balances of the Company’s contract assets and deferred revenue primarily results from the timing difference between the Company’s performance and the customer’s payment. The Company fulfills its obligations under a contract with a customer by transferring products and services in exchange for consideration from the customer. The Company recognizes a contract asset when it transfers products or services to a customer and the right to consideration is conditional on something other than the passage of time. Accounts receivable are recorded when the customer has been billed or the right to consideration is unconditional. The Company recognizes deferred revenue when it has received consideration or an amount of consideration is due from the customer and the Company has a future obligation to transfer products or services. Deferred revenue includes amounts billed or collected and advanced payments on contracts which may include termination for convenience clauses. The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended June 30, 2018 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at April 1, 2018 was $434 million.
D. Transaction Price Allocated to the Remaining Performance Obligations
The following table discloses the aggregate amount of the transaction price and advanced payments allocated to remaining performance obligations as of the end of the reporting period, and when the Company expects to recognize the revenue.
The Company’s multi-year contracts with government customers may have termination for convenience clauses. Approximately $88 million of advanced payments received from government customers that have termination for convenience rights are included in “Deferred revenue and advanced payments” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet and allocated to the remaining performance obligations in the table above. In addition, approximately $561 million related to the remaining unbilled contract value and performance obligations in these contracts with termination for convenience clauses are not included in the allocation of transaction price and not included in “Deferred revenue and advanced payments” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
E. Contract Costs
The Company pays commissions for new product sales as well as for renewals of existing contracts. Commissions paid to obtain renewal contracts are not commensurate with the commissions paid for new product sales and therefore, a portion of the commissions paid for new contracts relate to future renewals.
The Company accounts for commissions using a portfolio approach and allocates the cost of commissions in proportion to the allocation of transaction price of license and maintenance performance obligations, including assumed renewals. Commissions allocated to the license and license renewal components are expensed at the time the license revenue is recognized. Commissions allocated to maintenance are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of seven years for new contracts, reflecting the Company’s estimate of the expected period that the Company will benefit from those commissions. Commissions paid on renewal contracts that are allocated to maintenance are capitalized and amortized over the renewal term of approximately three years. Service contracts are generally less than one year and accordingly, as a practical expedient, commissions paid for service contracts are expensed as incurred.
In connection with the adoption of Topic 606, the Company increased its retained earnings by approximately $2,104 million. This increase was a result of a decrease in deferred revenue of approximately $1,358 million and the establishment of contract assets of approximately $931 million for amounts that would have been recognized under Topic 606 prior to April 1, 2018. In addition, upon adoption of Topic 606, the Company capitalized contract costs of approximately $427 million relating to commissions incurred to obtain customer contracts. Refer to Note 2 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” for additional details on contract costs.
The net change in deferred income taxes of approximately $301 million and income tax payables of approximately $280 million is primarily due to the current and deferred tax effects resulting from the aforementioned items.
In addition, the Company made other changes, primarily due to professional services, to our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet on April 1, 2018 to comply with Topic 606.
The following table provides a summary of the Company’s revenue amounts under Topic 605 for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 in a manner consistent with its presentation prior to the adoption of Topic 606. Refer to Note 1, “Accounting Policies,” for additional information on the current year reclassification.
On May 2, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) approved a restructuring plan (“Fiscal 2019 Plan”) to better align its business priorities. The Fiscal 2019 Plan comprises the termination of approximately 800 employees and global facility exits and consolidations. The Company intends to fill many of the positions involved in the Fiscal 2019 Plan with new employees who have different skill sets. These actions are intended to better align the Company’s cost structure with the skills and resources required to more effectively pursue opportunities in the marketplace and execute the Company’s long-term growth strategy. Costs associated with the Fiscal 2019 Plan are presented in “Other expenses, net” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Severance and facility exit and consolidation actions under the Fiscal 2019 Plan are expected to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2019. Under the Fiscal 2019 Plan, the Company expects to incur a pre-tax charge between approximately $140 million and $160 million (including severance costs between approximately $90 million and $100 million and facility exit and consolidation costs between approximately $50 million and $60 million).
The balance at June 30, 2018 includes facility exit accruals of approximately $7 million for plans and actions prior to the Fiscal 2019 Plan.
At June 30, 2018, foreign currency contracts outstanding consisted of purchase and sale contracts with a total gross notional value of approximately $933 million and durations of less than nine months. The net fair value of these contracts at June 30, 2018 was a net asset of approximately $13 million, of which approximately $21 million was included in “Other current assets” and approximately $8 million was included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
At March 31, 2018, foreign currency contracts outstanding consisted of purchase and sale contracts with a total gross notional value of approximately $456 million and durations of less than three months. The net fair value of these contracts at March 31, 2018 was a net asset of approximately $1 million, of which approximately $2 million was included in “Other current assets” and approximately $1 million was included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Company is subject to collateral security arrangements with most of its major counterparties. The Company posted no collateral at June 30, 2018 or March 31, 2018. Under these agreements, if the Company’s credit ratings had been downgraded one rating level, the Company would still not have been required to post collateral.
At June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3).
The carrying values of financial instruments classified as current assets and current liabilities, such as cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts payable, accrued expenses and short-term borrowings, approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of the instruments.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, approximately 1 million shares and 2 million shares of Company common stock underlying restricted stock awards (“RSAs”) and options to purchase common stock were excluded from the calculation because their effect on income per share was anti-dilutive during the respective periods. Weighted average RSAs of approximately 5 million shares and 5 million shares for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were considered participating securities in the calculation of net income allocable to common stockholders.
In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting, the Company disaggregates its operations into Mainframe Solutions, Enterprise Solutions and Services segments, which is utilized by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is the Company's Chief Executive Officer, for evaluating segment performance and allocating resources.
The Company’s Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments are comprised of its software business organized by the nature of the Company’s software offerings and the platforms on which the products operate. The Services segment is comprised of product implementation, consulting, customer education and customer training services, including those directly related to the Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions software that the Company sells to its customers.
The Company regularly enters into a single arrangement with a customer that includes mainframe solutions, enterprise solutions and services. The amount of contract revenue assigned to operating segments is generally based on the manner in which the proposal is made to the customer. The software product revenue assigned to the Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments is based on either (1) a list price allocation method (which allocates a discount in the total contract price to the individual products in proportion to the list price of the products); (2) allocations included within internal contract approval documents; or (3) the value for individual software products as stated in the customer contract. The price for the implementation, consulting, education and training services is separately stated in the contract and these amounts of contract revenue are assigned to the Services segment. The contract value assigned to each operating segment is then recognized in a manner consistent with the revenue recognition policies of the Company prior to the adoption of Topic 606. Accordingly, differences in segment revenue and consolidated revenue arise primarily from (a) term and perpetual software licenses that are recognized ratably under the Company’s segment policies and in its Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods prior to the adoption of Topic 606 that, after adoption of Topic 606, are recognized at a point-in-time; and (b) differences in the allocations of contract value among products and services in a contract arising from the use of a relative standalone selling price allocation method in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods after adoption of Topic 606 as compared to the aforementioned approach to assigning contract value to the Company’s segments.
Segment expenses do not include amortization of purchased software, amortization of other intangible assets, amortization of internally developed software products, share-based compensation expense, certain foreign exchange derivative hedging gains and losses, severance and facility actions approved by the Board, and other miscellaneous costs. A measure of segment assets is not currently provided to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and has therefore not been disclosed.
On July 11, 2018, the Company, Broadcom, and Collie Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Broadcom (“Merger Sub”) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”). The Merger Agreement provides that, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company (the “Merger”), with the Company surviving the Merger and becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Broadcom. Under the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Company common stock (other than shares (i) owned or held in treasury by the Company or owned by Broadcom or Merger Sub, (ii) owned by any wholly owned subsidiary of Broadcom or of the Company and (iii) held by the Company’s stockholders who perfect their appraisal rights with respect to the Merger) will be cancelled and automatically converted into the right to receive $44.50 in cash, without interest. Consummation of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including adoption of the Merger Agreement by the Company’s stockholders, the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the United States Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and clearance under the antitrust laws of the European Union and Japan.
Assuming timely satisfaction or waiver of the necessary closing conditions, the Company anticipates that the Merger will be completed in the fourth calendar quarter of 2018. For additional information related to the Merger, please refer to the Merger Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 2.1 to this Form 10-Q. In addition, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of certain risks due to the announcement and pendency of the proposed Merger or the failure of the Merger to be completed that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operating results.
Refer to Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain legal proceedings, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.
•The pendency and outcome of the legal proceedings that have been or may be instituted against us, our directors, executive officers and others relating to the proposed transaction; and
•The diversion of our employees’ attention due to activities related to the proposed transaction.
•We may have to pay Broadcom a termination fee of $566 million under certain circumstances that give rise to the termination of the Merger Agreement;
•We may be subject to legal proceedings related to the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement;
•We may experience a departure of employees.
