ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Forward-Looking Statements
This Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Statements which are not historical in nature, including the words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “could,” “should,” “may,” “plan,” “seek,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “target,” “will,” “project,” “focused,” “outlook,” “goal,” “designed,” and variations of these words and negatives thereof and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, including statements regarding, among others, (i) economic conditions, (ii) business and acquisition strategies, (iii) potential acquisitions and/or joint ventures and investments in unconsolidated entities, (iv) financing plans, and (v) industry, demographic and other trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations.
These forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations, are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances, certain of which are beyond our control.
Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including, but not limited to:
   •
general economic conditions, both in the United States and in the international markets we serve;
   •
   •
effects of supplier concentration;
   •
fluctuations in certain commodity costs;
   •
consumer spending;
   •
consumer debt levels;
   •
new housing starts and completions;
   •
capital spending in the commercial construction market;
   •
access to liquidity needed for operations;
   •
seasonal nature of product sales;
   •
weather patterns and conditions;
   •
insurance coverage risks;
   •
federal, state, and local regulations impacting our industry and products;
   •
prevailing interest rates;
   •
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;
   •
international political risk;
   •
cybersecurity risk; and
   •
the continued viability of our business strategy.
We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations.
For additional information regarding important factors that may affect our operations and could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please see the discussion included in Item 1A “Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, as well as the other documents and reports that we file with the SEC.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements were made.
We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information or the discussion of such risks and uncertainties to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions, or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except as required by applicable law.
We qualify any and all our forward-looking statements by these cautionary factors.
Table of Contents
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements, including the notes thereto, included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q.
In addition, reference should be made to our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto
, and related Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Company Overview
Revenues primarily consist of sales of air conditioning, heating, and refrigeration equipment, and related parts and supplies.
Selling, general and administrative expenses primarily consist of selling expenses, the largest components of which are salaries, commissions, and marketing expenses that are variable and correlate to changes in sales.
Other significant selling, general and administrative expenses relate to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of trucks and forklifts, and facility rent, a majority of which we operate under
non-cancelable operating leases.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter.
Demand related to the new construction market is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year and depends largely on housing completions and weather and economic conditions.
Joint Ventures with Carrier Corporation
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20%
non-controlling interest.
In 2011, we formed a second joint venture with Carrier, in which Carrier contributed 28 of its company-owned locations in the Northeast U.S., and we contributed 14 locations in the Northeast U.S., and we then purchased Carrier’s distribution operations in Mexico, which included seven locations.
Collectively, the Northeast locations and the Mexico operations are referred to as Carrier Enterprise II.
We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise II, and Carrier has a 20% non-controlling interest.
Effective May 31, 2019, we purchased an additional 20% ownership interest in Homans Associates II LLC (“Homans”) from Carrier Enterprise II, following which we owned 100% of Homans.
Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and now operates as one of our stand-alone-subsidiaries.
In 2012, we formed a third joint venture, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise III, with UTC Canada Corporation, referred to as UTC Canada, an affiliate of Carrier.
Carrier contributed 35 of its company-owned locations in Canada to Carrier Enterprise III.
We have a 60% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise III, and UTC Canada has a 40%
non-controlling interest.
Critical Accounting Policies
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
At least quarterly, management reevaluates its judgments and estimates, which are based on historical experience, current trends, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Our critical accounting policies are included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form
10-K, as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2019.
We believe that there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended September 30, 2019 to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
New Accounting Standards
Refer to Note 1 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for a discussion of recently adopted and to be adopted accounting standards.
Table of Contents
Results of Operations
In the following narratives, computations and other information referring to “same-store basis” exclude the effects of locations closed, acquired, or locations opened, unless they are within close geographical proximity to existing locations, during the immediately preceding 12 months.
At September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, 10 and 8 locations opened were near existing locations and were therefore included in “same-store basis” information.
Third Quarter of 2019 Compared to Third Quarter of 2018
Revenues
Revenues for the third quarter of 2019 increased $98.9 million, or 8%, including $58.7 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $4.2 million from locations closed.
Sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales) increased 8%, sales of other HVAC products (29% of sales) increased 11% and sales of commercial refrigeration products (3% of sales) increased 1%.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $44.4 million, or 3%, as compared to the same period in 2018, reflecting a 4% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (69% of sales), which included a 6% increase in residential HVAC equipment, a 2% increase in sales of other HVAC products (27% of sales) and 1% increase of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
For residential HVAC equipment, the increase in revenues was primarily due to strong demand for the replacement of residential HVAC equipment, realization of price increases and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices, resulting in a 4% increase in volume and a 2% increase in the average selling price.
Table of Contents
Gross Profit
Gross profit for the third quarter of 2019 increased $15.7 million, or 5%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Gross profit margin for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 declined 60 basis-points to 24.0% versus 24.6% for the same period in 2018, primarily due to the benefit of
mid-year pricing actions taken by our HVAC equipment suppliers in 2018, which did not recur in 2019.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2019 increased $12.5 million, or 6%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 decreased to 15.3% versus 15.5% for the same period in 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses included $1.5 million of additional costs for 2019 in excess of 2018 for ongoing technology initiatives, driven in part by our acquisition of Alert Labs in August 2018.
On a same-store basis, selling, general and administrative expenses were flat as compared to the same period in 2018.
Other Income
Other income of $3.5 million and $3.7 million for the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, represented our share of the net income of RSI.
Interest Expense, Net
Interest expense, net for the third quarter of 2019 increased $0.4 million, or 37%, primarily as a result of increase in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a lower effective interest rate due to higher interest income for the 2019 period, as compared to the same period in 2018.
Income Taxes
Income taxes decreased to $24.2 million for the third quarter of 2019, as compared to $24.4 million for the third quarter of 2018, and represent a composite of the income taxes attributable to our wholly owned operations and income taxes attributable to the Carrier joint ventures, which are primarily taxed as partnerships for income tax purposes; therefore, Carrier is responsible for its proportionate share of income taxes attributable to its share of earnings from these joint ventures.
The effective income tax rates attributable to us were 22.2% and 23.3% for the quarters ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The decrease was primarily due to the refinement of estimated global intangible
low-taxed income (“GILTI”) of foreign subsidiaries in the third quarter of 2019 due to the finalization of federal and state income tax regulations.
Net Income Attributable to Watsco, Inc.
Net income attributable to Watsco for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 increased $4.3 million, or 5%, compared to the same period in 2018.
The increase was primarily driven by higher revenues and gross profit, reduced selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues and a decrease in net income attributable to the
non-controlling interest related to our purchase of the additional 20% interest in Homans.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018
Revenues
Revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $142.7 million, or 4%, including $85.6 million from locations opened and acquired during the preceding 12 months, offset by $10.4 million from locations closed.
Sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales) increased 8%, sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) increased 3% and sales of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales) decreased 1%.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $67.5 million, or 2%, as compared to the same period in 2018, reflecting a 3% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales), which included a 4% increase in residential HVAC equipment, a 1% decrease in sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) and a 1% decrease in commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
For residential HVAC equipment, the increase in same-store revenues was primarily due to realization of price increases and a higher mix of high-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices, and demand for the replacement of residential HVAC equipment, resulting in a 2% increase in the average selling price and a 2% increase in volume.
Table of Contents
Gross Profit
Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $25.8 million, or 3%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Gross profit margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 declined 30 basis-points to 24.2% versus 24.5% for the same period in 2018, primarily due to the benefit of
mid-year pricing actions taken by our HVAC equipment suppliers in 2018, which did not recur in 2019.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $24.0 million, or 4%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues remained consistent at 15.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses included $4.3 million of additional costs for 2019 in excess of 2018 for ongoing technology initiatives, driven in part by our acquisition of Alert Labs in August 2018.
On a same-store basis, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1% as compared to the same period in 2018.
Other Income
Other income of $7.9 million and $8.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, represented our share of the net income of RSI.
Interest Expense, Net
Interest expense, net for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $1.0 million, or 44%, primarily as a result of an increase in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a lower effective interest rate due to higher interest income for the 2019 period, as compared to the same period in 2018.
Income Taxes
Income taxes decreased to $60.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, as compared to $63.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and represent a composite of the income taxes attributable to our wholly owned operations and income taxes attributable to the Carrier joint ventures, which are primarily taxed as partnerships for income tax purposes; therefore, Carrier is responsible for its proportionate share of income taxes attributable to its share of earnings from these joint ventures.
The effective income tax rates attributable to us were 22.1% and 23.6% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The decrease was primarily due to lower estimated foreign withholding taxes and the refinement of estimated GILTI of foreign subsidiaries in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 due to the finalization of federal and state income tax regulations.
Net Income Attributable to Watsco, Inc.
Net income attributable to Watsco for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $5.3 million, or 3%, compared to the same period in 2018.
The increase was primarily driven by higher revenues and gross profit, a reduction in income taxes, and a decrease in net income attributable to the
non-controlling interest related to our purchase of the additional 20% interest in Homans, partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses and interest expense as discussed above.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
   •
cash needed to fund our business (primarily working capital requirements);
   •
borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility;
   •
the ability to attract long-term capital with satisfactory terms;
   •
acquisitions, including joint ventures and investments in unconsolidated entities;
   •
dividend payments;
   •
capital expenditures; and
   •
the timing and extent of common stock repurchases.
Table of Contents
Sources and Uses of Cash
We rely on cash flows from operations and borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including dividend payments (if and as declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, business acquisitions, and development of our long-term operating and technology strategies.
Additionally, we may also generate cash through the issuance and sale of our Common stock.
As of September 30, 2019, we had $60.2 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which $43.9 million was held by foreign subsidiaries.
The repatriation of cash balances from our foreign subsidiaries could have adverse tax impacts or be subject to capital controls; however, these balances are generally available to fund the ordinary business operations of our foreign subsidiaries without legal or other restrictions.
We believe that our operating cash flows, cash on hand, and funds available for borrowing under our revolving credit agreement are sufficient to meet our liquidity needs in the foreseeable future.
However, there can be no assurance that our current sources of available funds will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements.
Our access to funds under our revolving credit agreement depends on the ability of the syndicate banks to meet their respective funding commitments.
Disruptions in the credit and capital markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit agreement and may also adversely affect the determination of interest rates, particularly rates based on LIBOR, which is one of the base rates under our revolving credit agreement.
LIBOR is the subject of recent proposals for reform that currently provide for the
Working Capital
Working capital increased to $1,148.5 million at September 30, 2019 from $1,084.2 million at December 31, 2018, reflecting higher levels of accounts receivable and inventories, primarily due to new locations opened and acquired, as well as additional inventory acquired in anticipation of the transition to new energy conservation standards for residential furnace fans that became effective on July 3, 2019.
These increases were partially offset by the timing of accounts payable and accrued liabilities as well as the current portion of lease liabilities recognized as current liabilities as a result of the adoption of the New Lease Standard on January 1, 2019.
Cash Flows
The individual items contributing to cash flow changes for the periods presented are detailed in the condensed consolidated unaudited statements of cash flows contained in this Quarterly Report on Form
Operating Activities
The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the comparative timing of payments for accrued expenses and other current liabilities in 2019 versus 2018.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was higher primarily due to cash consideration paid for those acquisitions described above.
Financing Activities
The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to lower net proceeds under our revolving credit agreement, the purchase of an additional 20% ownership interest in Homans for $32.4 million and an increase in dividends paid, partially offset by $17.0 million in proceeds from the
non-controlling interest for their contribution to the acquisition of the HVAC distribution business of PPI in 2019.
Table of Contents
Revolving Credit Agreement
We maintain an unsecured, $500.0 million syndicated multicurrency revolving credit agreement, which we use to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, dividends (if and as declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, stock repurchases and issuances of letters of credit.
The credit facility has a seasonal component from October 1 to March 31, during which the borrowing capacity was reduced to $400.0 million at our discretion.
Included in the credit facility are a $100.0 million swingline subfacility, a $10.0 million letter of credit subfacility, a $75.0 million alternative currency borrowing sublimit and an $8.0 million Mexican borrowing sublimit.
The credit agreement matures on December 5, 2023.
At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, $169.3 million and $135.2 million, respectively, were outstanding under the revolving credit agreement.
The revolving credit agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants with respect to consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, and other customary restrictions.
We believe we were in compliance with all covenants at September 30, 2019.
Purchase of Additional Ownership Interest from Joint Venture
Effective May 31, 2019, we purchased an additional 20% ownership interest in Homans from Carrier Enterprise II for cash consideration of $32.4 million, which increased our ownership in Homans to 100%.
Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and subsequent to the purchase operates as a stand-alone subsidiary of the Company with 16 locations in the Northeastern U.S.
Investment in Unconsolidated Entity
On June 21, 2017, Carrier Enterprise I acquired a 34.9% ownership interest in RSI, an HVAC distributor operating from 30 locations in the Western U.S. for cash consideration of $63.6 million, of which we contributed $50.9 million, and Carrier contributed $12.7 million.
Effective June 29, 2018, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.4% ownership interest in RSI, which increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 36.3%.
Total cash consideration of $3.8 million was paid on July 5, 2018, of which we contributed $3.0 million and Carrier contributed $0.8 million.
Effective April 22, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.8% ownership interest in RSI, which increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 38.1% for cash consideration of $4.9 million, of which we contributed $3.9 million and Carrier contributed $1.0 million.
Carrier Enterprise I is a party to a shareholders’ agreement (the “Shareholders’ Agreement”) with RSI and its shareholders.
Pursuant to the Shareholders’ Agreement, RSI’s shareholders have the right to sell, and Carrier Enterprise I has the obligation to purchase, their respective shares of RSI for a purchase price determined based on either book value or a multiple of EBIT, the latter of which Carrier Enterprise I used to calculate the price paid for its investment in RSI.
RSI’s shareholders may transfer their respective shares of RSI common stock only to members of the Sigler family or to Carrier Enterprise I, and, at any time from and after the date on which Carrier Enterprise I owns 85% or more of RSI’s outstanding common stock, it has the right, but not the obligation, to purchase from RSI’s shareholders the remaining outstanding shares of RSI common stock.
At September 30, 2019, the estimated purchase amount we would be contingently liable for was approximately $131.0 million.
We believe that our operating cash flows, cash on hand, and funds available for borrowing under our revolving credit agreement will be sufficient to purchase any additional ownership interests in RSI.
Acquisitions
On April 2, 2019, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of DASCO, a distributor of air conditioning and heating products operating from seven locations in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut.
The purchase price was composed of cash consideration of $16.8 million and the issuance of 50,952 shares of Common stock having a fair value of $7.5 million.
On August 1, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of PPI, an HVAC distributor operating from 19 locations in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware, for $85 million less certain average revolving indebtedness.
Consideration for the net purchase price consisted of $10.0 million in cash, 372,543 shares of Common stock having a fair value of $58.6 million and the payment of certain average revolving indebtedness.
Carrier contributed cash of $17.0 million to Carrier Enterprise I in connection with the acquisition of PPI.
The preliminary fair value estimate of working capital acquired of approximately $59.0 million consists mainly of inventory and accounts receivable partially offset by accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities.
We expect to finalize certain procedures related to the opening balance sheet and adjustments to estimates of fair value of net assets acquired by December 31, 2019.
Any acquired goodwill as a result of this acquisition will be deductible for tax purposes.
Common Stock Dividends
Company Share Repurchase Program
In September 1999, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase, at management’s discretion, of up to 7,500,000 shares of common stock in the open market or via private transactions.
Shares repurchased under the program are accounted for using the cost method and result in a reduction of shareholders’ equity.
We last repurchased shares under this plan in 2008.
In aggregate, 6,370,913 shares of Common and Class B common stock have been repurchased at a cost of $114.4 million since the inception of the program.
At September 30, 2019, there were 1,129,087 shares remaining authorized for repurchase under the program.
