ITEM 1.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.
Table of Contents
WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.
Table of Contents
WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.
WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Continued on next page.
Table of Contents
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.
WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.
Table of Contents
WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BASIS OF PRESENTATION
Basis of Consolidation
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The results of operations for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2019.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter.
Demand related to the new construction market is generally evenly distributed throughout the year, subject to weather and economic conditions, including their effect on the number of housing completions.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the reporting period.
Significant estimates include valuation reserves for accounts receivable, inventories and income taxes, reserves related to loss contingencies and the valuation of goodwill, indefinite
-lived intangible assets and long-lived intangible assets.
While we believe that these estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from such estimates.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards
Leases
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019 did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
See Note 2.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted
Intangibles—Goodwill and Other
In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
An entity also should consider income tax effects from any
tax-deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if any.
This guidance is effective prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted.
We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Table of Contents
LEASES
Adoption of New Lease Standard
We adopted the New Lease Standard on January 1, 2019 using the additional transition method described in Note 1 to these condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2019 are presented under the New Lease Standard.
Prior periods have not been restated.
The New Lease Standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet due to the recognition of
right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
Practical Expedients
We elected the package of practical expedients
that did not require us to reassess (1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, (2) the lease classification of existing leases, and (3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from
non-lease components for all underlying asset classes.
Operating and Finance Leases
We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment, and finance leases primarily for vehicles.
Operating leases are included in operating lease
right-of-use assets, current portion of long-term obligations, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet.
Finance leases are not considered significant to our consolidated balance sheet or consolidated statement of income.
Finance lease ROU assets at September 30, 2019 of $2,960 are included in property and equipment, net in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
Finance lease liabilities at September 30, 2019 of $3,047 are included in current portion of
other long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheet.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.
Operating lease ROU assets also include any lease
pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives.
Certain of our leases include variable payments, which are excluded from lease ROU assets and lease liabilities and
 expensed as incurred.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of
1-10 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to five years.
The exercise of lease renewal options is at our sole discretion, and our lease ROU assets and liabilities reflect only the options we are reasonably certain that we will exercise.
Certain real property lease agreements have lease and
non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component.
Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Supplemental cash flow information related to operating l
At September 30, 2019, we had additional operating leases, primarily for real property, that had not yet commenced.
Such leases had estimated future minimum rental commitments of approximately $1,600.
These operating leases
subsequently commence
d
on Octob
 2019 with lease terms of
five years.
These undiscounted amounts are not included in the table above.
Prior to the adoption of the New Lease Standard, rental commitments on an undiscounted basis were approximately $219,300 at December 31, 2018 under
REVENUES
Disaggregation of Revenues
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Diluted earnings per share for our Common stock assumes the conversion of all of our Class B common stock into Common stock as of the beginning of the fiscal year; therefore, no allocation of earnings to Class B common stock is required.
At September 30, 2019 and 2018, our outstanding Class B common stock was convertible into 2,576,336 and 2,602,528 shares of our Common stock, respectively
.
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME
Other comprehensive (loss) income consists of the foreign currency translation adjustment associated with our Canadian operations’ use of the Canadian dollar as their functional currency and changes in the unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedging instruments
.
The tax effects allocated to each component of other comprehensive
PURCHASE OF OWNERSHIP INTEREST FROM JOINT VENTURE
Effective May 31, 2019, we purchased an additional 20​​​​​​​% ownership interest in Homans Associates II LLC (“Homans”) from Carrier Enterprise Northeast, LLC (“Carrier Enterprise II”) for cash consideration of $32,400, which increased our ownership in Homans to 100%.
Homans previously operated as a division of Carrier Enterprise II and subsequent to the purchase operates as a stand-alone subsidiary of the Company with 16 locations in the Northeastern U.S.
INVESTMENT IN UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITY
On June 21, 2017, our first joint vent
ure with Carrier, Carrier Enterprise, LLC, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, acquired a 34.9% ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 30 locations in the Western U.S. We have an 80% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise I, and Carrier has a 20%
non-controlling interest.
Carrier Enterprise I acquired its ownership interest in RSI for cash consideration of $63,600, of which we contributed $50,880 and Carrier contributed $12,720.
Effective June 29, 2018, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.4% ownership interest in RSI, which increased Carrier
Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 36.3% for cash consideration of $3,760 that was paid on July 5, 2018, of which we contributed $
3,008 and Carrier contributed $
752.
Effective April 22, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.8% ownership interest in RSI for cash consideration of $4,940, of which we contributed $3,952 and Carrier contributed $988.
This acquisition increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 38.1%.
Carrier Enterprise I is a party to a
shareholders’
agreement (the “Shareholders
’
 Agreement”) with RSI and its shareholders.
Pursuant to the Shareholders
’
 Agreement, RSI’s shareholders have the right to sell, and Carrier Enterprise I has the obligation to purchase, their respective shares of RSI for a purchase price determined based on either book value or a multiple of EBIT, the latter of which Carrier Enterprise I used to calculate the price paid for its investment in RSI.
RSI’s shareholders may transfer their respective shares of RSI common stock only to members of the Sigler family or to Carrier Enterprise I, and, at any time from and after the date on which Carrier Enterprise I owns 85
% or more of RSI’s outstanding common stock, it has the right, but not the obligation, to purchase from RSI’s shareholders the remaining outstanding shares of RSI common stock.
Additionally, Carrier Enterprise I has the right to appoint two of RSI’s six board members.
Given Carrier Enterprise I’s 38.1​​​​​​​
% voting equity interest in RSI and its right to appoint
two
out of RSI’s
six
board members, this investment in RSI is accounted for under the equity method.
ACQUISITION
S
On August 1, 2019, Carrier Enterprise I acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of Peirce-Phelps, Inc. (“PPI”), an HVAC distributor operating from 19 locations in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware, for $85,000 less certain average revolving indebtedness.
Consideration for the net purchase price consisted of $10,000 in cash
, 372,543 shares of Common stock having a fair value of $58,638
and the payment of certain average revolving indebtedness
.
 Carrier contributed cash of $17,000 to Carrier Enterprise I in connection with the acquisition of PPI.
The preliminary fair value estimate of working capital acquired of approximately $59,000 consists mainly of inventory and accounts receivable partially offset by accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities.
We expect to finalize certain procedures related to the opening balance sheet and adjustments to estimates of fair value of net assets acquired by December 31, 2019.
Any acquired goodwill as a result of this acquisition will be deductible for tax purposes.
The results of operations of these acquisitions have been included in the consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.
The pro forma effect of the
se acquisitions were not deemed significant to the consolidated financial statements.
DERIVATIVES
We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the earnings impact that foreign exchange rate fluctuations would otherwise have on certain monetary liabilities that are denominated in nonfunctional currencies.
Cash Flow Hedging Instruments
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges.
The settlement of these derivatives results in reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings for the period in which the settlement of these instruments occurs.
The maximum period for which we hedge our cash flow using these instruments is
12 months.
Accordingly, at September 30, 2019, all our open foreign currency forward contracts had maturities of
one year or less.
The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at September 30, 2019 was $40,400, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through June 2020.
At September 30, 2019, we expected an estimated $385
pre-tax
loss to be reclassified into earnings to reflect the fixed prices obtained from foreign exchange hedging within the next 12 months.
Table of Contents
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
We have also entered into foreign currency forward and option contracts that are either not designated as hedges or did not qualify for hedge accounting.
These derivative instruments were effective economic hedges for all the periods presented.
The fair value gains and losses on these contracts are recognized in earnings as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses.
The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments at September 30, 2019 was $12,300, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through November 2019.
We recognized
gains
 (losses
) of $128 and $
) from foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated as hedging instruments in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the quarters ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We recognized losses of $175 and $299 from foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated as hedging instruments in our condensed consolidated unaudited statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The following table summarizes the fair value of derivative instruments, which consist solely of foreign exchange contracts, included in other current assets and accrued expenses and other current liabilities in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheets.
See Note
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Equity securities – these investments are exchange-traded equity securities.
Fair values for these investments are based on closing stock prices from active markets and are therefore classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
Derivative financial instruments – these derivatives are foreign currency forward and option contracts.
See Note
9.
Fair value is based on observable market inputs, such as forward rates in active markets; therefore, we classify these derivatives within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.
There were no transfers in or out of Level 1 and Level 2 during the nine months ended September 30, 201
Table of Contents
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Common Stock Dividends
We paid cash dividends of $1.60, $1.45, $4.80, and $4.15 per share of both Common stock and Class B common stock during the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Non-Vested Restricted Stock
During the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2019, 3,231 shares of Common and Class B common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $535, and 9,824 shares of Common and Class B common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $1,518, respectively, were withheld as payment in lieu of cash to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of
non-vested restricted stock.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2018, 8,830 shares of Common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $1,562, and 21,754 shares of Common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $3,775, respectively, were withheld as payment in lieu of cash to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of
non-vested restricted stock.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
Exercise of Stock Options
Cash received from Common stock issued as a result of stock options exercised during the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, was $3,986, $856, $6,229, and $4,837, respectively.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2019,
 799 shares of Common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $134
were withheld as payment in lieu of cash for stock option exercises.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2018, 376 shares of Common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $69, and
shares of Common stock with an aggregate fair market value of
, respectively, were withheld as payment in lieu of cash for stock option exercises.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
During the quarters ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we received net proceeds of $418 and $382, respectively, for shares of Common stock issued under our employee stock purchase plan.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we received net proceeds of $1,251 and $1,142, respectively, for shares of Common stock issued under our employee stock purchase plan.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Litigation, Claims and Assessments
We are involved in litigation incidental to the operation of our business.
We vigorously defend all matters in which we or our subsidiaries are named defendants and, for insurable losses, maintain significant levels of insurance to protect against adverse judgments, claims or assessments that may affect us.
Although the adequacy of existing insurance coverage and the outcome of any legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, based on the current information available, we do not believe the ultimate liability associated with any known claims or litigation will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
Self-Insurance
Self-insurance reserves are maintained relative to company-wide casualty insurance and health benefit programs.
The level of exposure from catastrophic events is limited by the purchase of stop-loss and aggregate liability reinsurance coverage.
When estimating the self-insurance liabilities and related reserves, management considers a number of factors, which include historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors
, and valuations provided by independent third-party actuaries.
Management reviews its assumptions with its independent third-party actuaries to evaluate whether the self-insurance reserves are adequate.
If actual claims or adverse development of loss reserves occur and exceed these estimates, additional reserves may be required.
Reserves in the amounts of $4,022 and $2,311 at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, were established related to such programs and are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities in our condensed consolidated unaudited balance sheets.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 60% and 64% of all inventory purchases made during the quarters ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 61% and 63% of all inventory purchases made during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $120,000 and $71,000, respectively, was payable to Carrier and its affiliates, net of receivables.
Our joint ventures with Carrier also sell HVAC products to Carrier and its affiliates.
Revenues in our condensed consolidated unaudited
Table of Contents
statements of income for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 included approximately $24,000, $28,000, $68,000, and $65,000, respectively, of sales to Carrier and its affiliates.
We believe these transactions are conducted on terms equivalent to an
arm’s-length basis in the ordinary course of business.
A member of our Board of Directors is the Senior Chairman of Greenberg Traurig, P.A., which serves as our principal outside counsel for compliance and acquisition-related legal services.
During the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we paid this firm $175, $0, $175, and $18 for services performed, respectively, and
no amount was payable at September 30, 2019.
 ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q under the caption “Litigation, Claims and Assessments,” which information is incorporated by reference in this Item 1 of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form
 ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
Information about risk factors for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 does not differ materially from that set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of our Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Table of Contents
 ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS
filed herewith.
 +
furnished herewith.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURE
