ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Forward-Looking Statements
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Statements which are not historical in nature, including the words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “could,” “should,” “may,” “plan,” “seek,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “target,” “will,” “project,” “focused,” “outlook,” and variations of these words and negatives thereof and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, including statements regarding, among others, (i) economic conditions, (ii) business and acquisition strategies, (iii) potential acquisitions and/or joint ventures and investments in unconsolidated entities, (iv) financing plans and (v) industry, demographic and other trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations.
These forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations, are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, certain of which are beyond our control.
Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including, but not limited to:
Table of Contents
   •   general economic conditions;
   •   effects of supplier concentration;
   •   fluctuations in certain commodity costs;
   •   consumer spending;
   •   consumer debt levels;
   •   new housing starts and completions;
   •   capital spending in the commercial construction market;
   •   access to liquidity needed for operations;
   •   seasonal nature of product sales;
   •   weather conditions;
   •   insurance coverage risks;
   •   federal, state and local regulations impacting our industry and products;
   •   prevailing interest rates;
   •   foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;
   •   international political risk;
   •   cybersecurity risk; and
   •   the continued viability of our business strategy.
We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations.
For additional information regarding other important factors that may affect our operations and could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please see the discussion included in Item 1A “Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, as well as the other documents and reports that we file with the SEC.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements were made.
We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information or the discussion of such risks and uncertainties to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except as required by applicable law.
We qualify any and all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary factors.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements, including the notes thereto, included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
In addition, reference should be made to our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and related Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Company Overview
Revenues primarily consist of sales of air conditioning, heating, and refrigeration equipment, and related parts and supplies.
Selling, general and administrative expenses primarily consist of selling expenses, the largest components of which are salaries, commissions, and marketing expenses that are variable and correlate to changes in sales.
Other significant selling, general and administrative expenses relate to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of trucks and forklifts, and facility rent, which are payable mostly under non-cancelable operating leases.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter.
Demand related to the new construction market is generally evenly distributed throughout the year, subject to weather and economic conditions, including their effect on the number of housing completions.
Table of Contents
Joint Ventures with Carrier Corporation
In 2009, we formed a joint venture with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise I, in which Carrier contributed 95 of its company-owned locations in 13 Sun Belt states and Puerto Rico, and its export division in Miami, Florida, and we contributed 15 locations that distributed Carrier products.
In July 2012, we exercised our option to acquire an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise I, which increased our ownership interest to 70%; and, on July 1, 2014, we exercised our last remaining option to acquire an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise I, which increased our controlling interest to 80%.
Neither Watsco nor Carrier has any remaining options to purchase additional ownership interests in Carrier Enterprise I or any of our other joint ventures with Carrier, which are described below.
In 2011, we formed a second joint venture with Carrier and completed two additional transactions.
In April 2011, Carrier contributed 28 of its company-owned locations in the Northeast U.S., and we contributed 14 locations in the Northeast U.S.
In July 2011, we purchased Carrier’s distribution operations in Mexico, which included seven locations.
Collectively, the Northeast locations and the Mexico operations are referred to as Carrier Enterprise II.
On November 29, 2016, we purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, and, on February 13, 2017, we again purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, which together increased our controlling interest to 80%.
In 2012, we formed a third joint venture, which we refer to as Carrier Enterprise III, with UTC Canada Corporation, referred to as UTC Canada, an affiliate of Carrier.
Carrier contributed 35 of its company-owned locations in Canada to Carrier Enterprise III.
We have a 60% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise III, and UTC Canada has a 40% non-controlling interest.
Critical Accounting Policies
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
At least quarterly, management reevaluates its judgments and estimates, which are based on historical experience, current trends, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Our critical accounting policies are included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018.
We believe that there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Refer to Note 1 to our condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recently adopted and to be adopted accounting standards.
Results of Operations
Table of Contents
The following narratives reflect our ownership interest in Russell Sigler, Inc. (“RSI”) purchased in June 2017 and our additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II, which we acquired on February 13, 2017.
We did not acquire any material businesses during 2018 or 2017.
Second Quarter of 2018 Compared to Second Quarter of 2017
Revenues
Revenues for the second quarter of 2018 increased $56.8 million, or 5%, including $6.0 million from locations opened during the preceding 12 months, offset by $3.2 million from locations closed.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $54.0 million, or 4%, as compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting a 6% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (68% of sales), which included a 6% increase in residential HVAC equipment and a 5% increase in commercial HVAC equipment, a 5% increase in sales of other HVAC products (28% of sales) and a 1% increase in sales of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
The increase in same-store revenues was primarily due to demand for the replacement of residential and commercial HVAC equipment.
Revenues from sales of residential HVAC equipment also benefited from an improved sales mix of higher-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices.
Gross Profit
Gross profit for the second quarter of 2018 increased $10.5 million, or 3%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Gross profit margin for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 declined 20 basis-points to 24.1% versus 24.3% for the same period in 2017, primarily due to a non-recurring benefit related to non-equipment products in 2017 and lower vendor incentives in 2018 due to timing of purchases, partially offset by an improvement in selling margins for HVAC equipment.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2018 increased $5.6 million, or 3%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 decreased to 14.0% versus 14.2% for the same period in 2017.
On a same-store basis, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 3% as compared to the same period in 2017.
Selling, general and administrative expenses included $0.7 million of additional costs for 2018 in excess of 2017 for ongoing technology initiatives.
Other Income
Other income of $3.2 million for the second quarter of 2018 represents our share of the net income of RSI.
Interest Expense, Net
Net interest expense for the second quarter of 2018 decreased $0.9 million, or 54%, primarily as a result of a decrease in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a higher effective interest rate for the 2018 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2017.
Table of Contents
Income Taxes
Income taxes decreased to $28.3 million for the second quarter of 2018 as compared to $36.9 million for the second quarter of 2017 and are a composite of the income taxes attributable to our wholly owned operations and income taxes attributable to the Carrier joint ventures, which are primarily taxed as partnerships for income tax purposes.
The effective income tax rates attributable to us were 23.8% and 32.9% for the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The decrease was primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018 as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.
Net Income Attributable to Watsco, Inc.
Net income attributable to Watsco for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 increased $16.2 million, or 22%, compared to the same period in 2017.
The increase was primarily driven by higher revenues, expanded operating margin, lower interest expense, net, and lower income taxes as discussed above.
First Half of 2018 Compared to First Half of 2017
Revenues
Revenues for the first half of 2018 increased $111.3 million, or 5%, including $10.6 million from locations opened during the preceding 12 months, offset by $6.5 million from locations closed.
On a same-store basis, revenues increased $107.2 million, or 5%, as compared to the same period in 2017, reflecting a 6% increase in sales of HVAC equipment (67% of sales), which included a 7% increase in residential HVAC equipment and a 5% increase in commercial HVAC equipment, a 6% increase in sales of other HVAC products (29% of sales) and flat sales of commercial refrigeration products (4% of sales).
The increase in same-store revenues was primarily due to strong demand for the replacement of residential and commercial HVAC equipment.
Revenues from sales of residential HVAC equipment also benefited from an improved sales mix of higher-efficiency air conditioning and heating systems, which sell at higher unit prices.
Gross Profit
Gross profit for the first half of 2018 increased $22.8 million, or 4%, primarily as a result of increased revenues.
Gross profit margin for the six months ended June 30, 2018 declined 20 basis-points to 24.4% versus 24.6%, primarily due to a shift in sales mix away from non-equipment products and toward HVAC equipment, which generates a lower gross profit margin than non-equipment products.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first half of 2018 increased $14.3 million, or 4%, primarily due to increased revenues.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased to 16.2% versus 16.3% for the same period in 2017.
On a same-store basis, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 4% as compared to the same period in 2017.
Selling, general and administrative expenses included $1.0 million of additional costs for 2018 in excess of 2017 for ongoing technology initiatives.
Other Income
Other income of $4.8 million for the first half of 2018 represents our share of the net income of RSI.
Interest Expense, Net
Net interest expense for the first half of 2018 decreased $1.6 million, or 54%, primarily as a result of a decrease in average outstanding borrowings, partially offset by a higher effective interest rate for the 2018 period, in each case under our revolving credit facility, as compared to the same period in 2017.
Income Taxes
Income taxes decreased to $39.3 million for the first half of 2018 as compared to $50.5 million for the first half of 2017 and are a composite of the income taxes attributable to our wholly owned operations and income taxes attributable to the Carrier joint ventures, which are primarily taxed as partnerships for income tax purposes.
The effective income tax rates attributable to us were 23.8% and 33.1% for the first half of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The decrease was primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018 as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.
Table of Contents
Net Income Attributable to Watsco, Inc.
Net income attributable to Watsco for the first half of 2018 increased $24.2 million, or 24%, compared to the same period in 2017.
The increase was primarily driven by higher revenues, expanded operating margin, lower interest expense, net, and lower income taxes as discussed above.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
   •   cash needed to fund our business (primarily working capital requirements);
   •   borrowing capacity under our bank line of credit;
   •   the ability to attract long-term capital with satisfactory terms;
   •   acquisitions, including joint ventures and investments in unconsolidated entities;
   •   dividend payments;
   •   capital expenditures; and
   •   the timing and extent of common stock repurchases.
Sources and Uses of Cash
We rely on cash flows from operations and borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including dividend payments (to the extent declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, business acquisitions, and development of our long-term operating and technology strategies.
Additionally, we may generate cash through the issuance and sale of our Common stock.
As of June 30, 2018, we had $72.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which $58.5 million was held by foreign subsidiaries.
The repatriation of cash balances from our foreign subsidiaries could have adverse tax consequences or be subject to capital controls; however, these balances are generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations of our foreign subsidiaries.
We believe that our operating cash flows, cash on hand, and funds available for borrowing under our revolving credit agreement are sufficient to meet our liquidity needs in the foreseeable future.
However, there can be no assurance that our current sources of available funds will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements.
Working Capital
Working capital increased to $1.1 billion at June 30, 2018 from $920.9 million at December 31, 2017, reflecting higher levels of accounts receivable and inventories, primarily due to the seasonality of our business.
Cash Flows
The individual items contributing to cash flow changes for the periods presented are detailed in the condensed consolidated unaudited statements of cash flows contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Operating Activities
The increase in net cash used in operating activities was primarily due to higher accounts receivable driven by increased sales volume and from a buildup of inventory, partially offset by higher net income for the first half of 2018.
Table of Contents
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was lower due to the purchase of an ownership interest in RSI for $63.6 million in 2017 and a decrease in capital expenditures in 2018.
Financing Activities
The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to an increase in dividends paid in 2018 and the purchase of an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II for $42.7 million in 2017, partially offset by lower proceeds borrowed under our revolving credit agreement in the 2018 period.
Revolving Credit Agreement
We maintain an unsecured, syndicated revolving credit agreement, which we use to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, dividends (if and as declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, stock repurchases, and issuances of letters of credit.
Effective February 5, 2018, we decreased the borrowing capacity under this credit agreement from $600.0 million to $300.0 million.
Included in the credit facility are a $90.0 million swingline subfacility, a $10.0 million letter of credit subfacility and a $75.0 million multicurrency borrowing sublimit.
The credit agreement matures on July 1, 2019.
We believe we will refinance the credit agreement at or prior to its maturity on similar terms and subject to similar conditions.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $141.6 million and $21.8 million were outstanding under the revolving credit agreement, respectively.
The revolving credit agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants with respect to consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, and other customary restrictions.
We believe we were in compliance with all covenants at June 30, 2018.
Additionally, at June 30, 2018, $1.5 million of short-term borrowings were outstanding under a credit line established by our Mexican subsidiary.
This line of credit has a one-year term, maturing on June 12, 2019, is non-committed and provides for borrowings of up to approximately $3.8 million (MXN 75.0 million) for general corporate purposes.
No short-term borrowings were outstanding under this credit line at December 31, 2017.
Purchase of Additional Ownership Interest in Joint Venture
On February 13, 2017, we purchased an additional 10% ownership interest in Carrier Enterprise II for cash consideration of $42.7 million, which increased our controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise II to 80%.
We used borrowings under our revolving credit agreement to finance this acquisition.
Investment in Unconsolidated Entity
On June 21, 2017, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an approximately 35% ownership interest in RSI, an HVAC distributor operating from 30 locations in the Western U.S. for cash consideration of $63.6 million, of which we contributed $50.9 million, and Carrier contributed $12.7 million.
Effective June 29, 2018, Carrier Enterprise I acquired an additional 1.4% voting equity interest in RSI, which increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI from approximately 35% to 36.3%.
Total cash consideration of $3.8 million was paid on July 5, 2018, of which we contributed $3.0 million and Carrier contributed $0.8 million.
Carrier Enterprise I entered into a shareholders agreement (the “Shareholders Agreement”) with RSI and its shareholders.
Pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, RSI’s shareholders have the right to sell, and Carrier Enterprise I has the obligation to purchase, their respective shares of RSI for a purchase price determined based on either book value or a multiple of EBIT, the latter of which Carrier Enterprise I used to calculate the price paid for its investment in RSI.
RSI’s shareholders may transfer their respective shares of RSI common stock only to members of the Sigler family or to Carrier Enterprise I, and, at any time from and after the date on which Carrier Enterprise I owns 85% or more of RSI’s outstanding common stock, it has the right, but not the obligation, to purchase from RSI’s shareholders the remaining outstanding shares of RSI common stock.
We believe that our operating cash flows, cash on hand, and funds available for borrowing under our revolving credit agreement will be sufficient to purchase any additional ownership interests in RSI.
Acquisitions
Common Stock Dividends
We paid cash dividends of $2.70 and $2.10 per share of both Common stock and Class B common stock during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
On July 2, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $1.45 per share of both Common and Class B common stock that is payable on July 31, 2018 to shareholders of record as of July 17, 2018.
Table of Contents
Company Share Repurchase Program
In September 1999, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase, at management’s discretion, of up to 7,500,000 shares of common stock in the open market or via private transactions.
Shares repurchased under the program are accounted for using the cost method and result in a reduction of shareholders’ equity.
No shares were repurchased during the quarters ended June 30, 2018 or
2017.
In aggregate, 6,370,913 shares of Common and Class B common stock have been repurchased at a cost of $114.4 million since the inception of the program.
At June 30, 2018, there were 1,129,087 shares remaining authorized for repurchase under the program.
