item1.txt
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution. The Company’s highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting. Certain information and footnote disclosures, normally included in annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations. However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented. The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year. This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 26, 2018 (the “2017 10-K”). 
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. As a result of adoption, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $23.6 million to the income tax provision for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards for the nine months ended June 29, 2018. The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $23.6 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018. Prior periods have not been adjusted. The Company has elected to account for forfeitures as they occur and will no longer estimate future forfeitures. The change in accounting for forfeitures was applied using a modified retrospective transition method and resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $1.9 million. Forfeitures in the future will now be recorded as a benefit in the period they are realized.
In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance. The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application. The Company will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and currently expects to apply the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance. The Company has established a cross-functional team to assess the potential impact of the new revenue standard. The assessment process consists of reviewing the Company's current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to its revenue contracts and identifying appropriate changes to the business processes, systems and controls to support revenue recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard. The Company is continuing to evaluate the potential impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements. Based on its preliminary assessments, the Company does not expect the new guidance to have a material impact on the nature, amount, and timing of its revenue recognition. As the Company continues to assess the impact of the new guidance on its revenue contracts with its customers and finalizes its evaluation of any changes to its accounting policies, internal controls and footnote disclosures, the Company may identify additional areas of impact and may revise the results of its preliminary assessment. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”). This ASU requires lessees to reflect most leases on their balance sheet as assets and obligations. The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The standard is to be applied under the modified retrospective method, with elective reliefs, which requires application of the new guidance for all periods presented. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230), (“ASU 2016-15”). This ASU provides guidance on the presentation and classification of specific cash flow items to improve consistency within the statement of cash flows. The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity Transfers of an Asset Other than Inventory (“ASU 2016-16”). This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset. Similarly, the purchasing (receiving) entity is required to recognize a deferred tax asset or deferred tax liability, as well as the related deferred tax benefit or expense, upon receipt of the asset. The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December, 15, 2017, on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect ASU 2016-16 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
At June 29, 2018, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $28.0 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment. These amounts accrued for capital equipment purchases have been excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, and are expected to be paid in subsequent periods. Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. The description “Proceeds from employee stock purchase plan” has been reclassified from net cash provided by operating activities to net cash used in financing activities. 
•Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets), or model-driven valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated with, observable market data.
The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the three months ended June 29, 2018, resulted primarily from a decrease to tax expense of $12.0 million related to the release of tax reserves due to the lapse of the statute of limitations, an adjustment to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, and a benefit of $1.1 million related to windfall stock deductions, partially offset by an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions. 
The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, resulted primarily from a one-time charge of $238.0 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of the deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform, and an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, a decrease to tax expense of $12.0 million related to the release of tax reserves due to the lapse of the statute of limitations, and a benefit of $23.6 million related to windfall stock deductions. 
On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law new tax legislation, which includes, among other things, a reduction of the United States corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax and the domestic production activities deduction, and expensing of certain capital investments. The new law makes fundamental changes to the taxation of multinational entities, including a shift from worldwide taxation with deferral to a hybrid territorial system, featuring a participation exemption regime, a minimum tax on low-taxed foreign earnings, and new measures to deter base erosion and promote export from the United States. The Company expects this tax reform to have significant continued impact on its provision for income taxes and is in the process of evaluating the impact.
Accrued taxes of $18.3 million and $20.3 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of June 29, 2018, and June 30, 2017, respectively. The $238.0 million deemed repatriation tax is payable over the next eight years, $19.0 million per year for each of the next five years, followed by payments of $35.8 million, $47.7 million, and $59.5 million in years six through eight, respectively. The Company has accrued $219.0 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long-term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of June 29, 2018. 
During the three months ended June 29, 2018, the Company paid $240.3 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 2.5 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $97.43 per share). During the nine months ended June 29, 2018, the Company paid $524.5 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 5.1 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $102.06 per share). As of June 29, 2018, $647.9 million remained available under the existing stock repurchase authorization.
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding during the period. The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards that were outstanding during the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, and June 30, 2017, using the treasury stock method. Certain of the Company’s outstanding share-based awards, noted in the table above, were excluded because they were anti-dilutive, but they could become dilutive in the future.


item2.txt
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution. Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
We generated net revenue of $894.3 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, a decrease of $6.5 million or 0.7%, as compared with $900.8 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017. Net revenue increased by 7.2% or $192.8 million to $2,859.6 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with $2,666.8 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017. This increase in net revenue for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from smartphone customers and an increase in demand from customers within the Internet of Things, automotive, industrial, medical and military industries, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, offset by decreases in average selling prices.
The $104.2 million increase in gross profit for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix, lower per-unit materials and manufacturing costs and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $227.0 million. These positive impacts were partially offset by lower average selling prices with a gross profit impact of $122.8 million. Gross profit margin increased to 50.6% of net revenue for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017. 
The increase in research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development–related expenses. Research and development expense increased as a percentage of net revenue, when compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, as a result of our increased investment in developing new technologies and products. 
We recorded a provision for income taxes of $24.3 million (which consisted of $16.0 million and $8.3 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) and $355.8 million (which consisted of $328.7 million and $27.1 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, respectively. 
The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, was 7.8% and 36.0%, respectively, as compared with 19.7% and 19.8% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. The difference between our effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, of 36.0% and the federal statutory rate of 24.6% resulted primarily from a one-time charge of $238.0 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform, and an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, a decrease to tax expense of $12.0 million related to the release of tax reserves due to the lapse of statute of limitations and a benefit of $23.6 million related to windfall stock deductions. 
Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income for the period adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain operating assets and liabilities. During the nine months ended June 29, 2018, we generated $1,053.0 million of cash from operating activities, an increase of $14.3 million as compared with the $1,038.7 million generated during the nine months ended June 30, 2017. The increase in cash from operating activities during the nine months ended June 29, 2018, was primarily related to an increase in net income, exclusive of the unpaid portion of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings.
Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of capital expenditures and cash paid related to the purchase of marketable securities, offset by cash received related to the sale or maturity of marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities was $809.2 million during the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with $228.5 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2017. Purchases of marketable securities were $523.2 million and sales and maturities of marketable securities were $32.6 million during the nine months ended June 29, 2018. The cash used for capital expenditures was $310.0 million in the nine months ended June 29, 2018, primarily related to the purchase of manufacturing equipment to support the expansion of our assembly and test operations, filter production operations, and wafer fabrication facilities. During the nine months ended June 29, 2018, we also paid $8.6 million related to purchased intangibles.
Cash and cash equivalent balances were $1,158.1 million as of June 29, 2018, representing a decrease of $458.7 million from September 29, 2017. The decrease resulted from $524.5 million used to repurchase 5.1 million shares of stock, $175.2 million in cash dividend payments, $47.5 million used to repurchase shares related to payroll tax withholdings on equity awards, $490.6 million in net purchases of marketable securities and $310.0 million in capital expenditures which was partially offset by $1,053.0 million in cash generated from operations. Based on our historical results of operations, we expect that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand and the cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, working capital, quarterly cash dividend payments (if such dividends are declared by the Board of Directors), outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with existing operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital and operating requirements. In addition, any future strategic investments and acquisitions may require additional cash and capital resources. If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash or capital to meet our needs on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected.
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement. The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in certain competition with the third party. Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020. The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.


item3.txt
Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds and marketable securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity) that total approximately $1,158.1 million and marketable securities (U.S. Treasury and government securities, corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $384.4 million and $106.3 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of June 29, 2018.
The main objectives of our investment activities are liquidity and preservation of capital. Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. Our marketable securities consist of short-term and long-term maturity periods between zero and two years. Credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our investments are diversified across several types of securities with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one investment. 


part2.txt
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement. The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in certain competition with the third party. Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020. The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 


