item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting. Certain information and footnote disclosures, normally included in annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations. However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented. The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year. This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, filed with the SEC on November 15, 2018, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 25, 2019 (the “2018 10-K”).
 In August 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) deferred the effective date of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (“ASU 2014-09”), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance. The Company has determined the impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements is not material. Refer to Note 2, Revenue Recognition, for additional information. 
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity Transfers of an Asset Other than Inventory (“ASU 2016-16”). This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset. Similarly, the purchasing (receiving) entity is required to recognize a deferred tax asset or deferred tax liability, as well as the related deferred tax benefit or expense, upon receipt of the asset. The Company adopted ASU 2016-16 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (Topic 320), (“ASU 2016-13”). This ASU requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured on the basis of amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period. This ASU requires that credit losses of debt securities designated as available-for-sale be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. The ASU also limits the credit loss to the amount by which fair value is below 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”). This ASU requires lessees to reflect leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as assets and obligations. The Company plans to adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The Company will utilize the modified retrospective method and will recognize any cumulative effect adjustment in retained earnings at the beginning of the period of adoption. The Company plans to elect the package of three practical expedients that permits the Company to maintain its historical conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs for leases that exist at the date of adoption. Further, upon implementation of the new guidance, the Company intends to elect the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components. The Company has performed an assessment of the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Based on that assessment, the Company has estimated that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will result in the recognition of approximately $150 million to $170 million of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities based on the present value of future minimum lease payments for currently executed leases. The Company does not expect the adoption of this new guidance to have a significant impact on its Consolidated Statements of Operations or its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 for open contracts not completed as of the adoption date using the modified retrospective approach. The impact from the cumulative effect adjustment was not material and comparative information for prior periods has not been adjusted. The impact of applying the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, was not material, except for an increase in accounts receivable and other current liabilities in the amount of $29.4 million to reflect customer credits as a liability. 
Each distinct promise to transfer products is considered to be an identified performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control of the products to the customer. Transfer of control occurs upon shipment to the distributor or direct customer or when products are pulled from consignment inventory by the customer. Point in time recognition is determined as products manufactured under non-cancellable orders create an asset with an alternative use to the Company. Returns under the Company’s general assurance warranty of products have not been material and warranty-related services are not considered a separate performance obligation. As of June 28, 2019, the amount of remaining performance obligation that has not been recognized as revenue is not material. 
Accounts receivable represents the Company’s unconditional right to receive consideration from its customer. Payments are due within one year of invoicing and do not include a significant financing component. To date, there have been no material impairment losses on accounts receivable. There were no material contract assets or contract liabilities recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in any of the periods presented. All incremental customer contract acquisition costs are expensed as they are incurred as the amortization period of the asset that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less in duration.
The Company has a single reportable operating segment which designs, develops, manufactures and markets similar proprietary semiconductor products, including intellectual property. In reaching this conclusion, management considers the definition of the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”), how the business is defined by the CODM, the nature of the information provided to the CODM and how that information is used to make operating decisions, allocate resources and assess performance. The Company’s CODM is the president and chief executive officer. The results of operations provided to and analyzed by the CODM are at the consolidated level, and accordingly, key resource decisions and assessment of performance are performed at the consolidated level. The Company assesses its determination of operating segments at least annually.
The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, resulted primarily from a decrease to tax expense related to an adjustment to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, and a benefit related to windfall stock deductions, partially offset by an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions. During the nine months ended June 29, 2018, these amounts in the table above included a one-time charge of $238.0 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings and a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of the deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform.
Accrued taxes of $26.2 million and $43.8 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of June 28, 2019, and September 28, 2018, respectively. The deemed repatriation tax is payable over the next seven years, $18.0 million per year for each of the next four years, followed by payments of $33.6 million, $44.9 million, and $56.1 million in years five through seven, respectively. The Company has accrued $188.6 million and $206.6 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long-term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of June 28, 2019, and September 28, 2018, respectively.
The Company indemnifies its directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of the state of Delaware. The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite. The indemnities to customers in connection with product sales generally are subject to limits based upon the amount of the related product sales and in many cases are subject to geographic and other restrictions. In certain instances, the Company’s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make. The Company has not recorded any liability for these indemnities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and does not expect that such obligations will have a material adverse impact on its financial statements.
On January 30, 2019, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 30, 2021, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. This newly authorized stock repurchase plan replaced in its entirety the January 31, 2018, stock repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares of the Company’s common stock that are repurchased under the new repurchase program will be determined by the Company’s management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. 
During the three months ended June 28, 2019, the Company paid $85.8 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 1.2 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $72.20 per share). During the nine months ended June 28, 2019, the Company paid $511.3 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 6.9 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $73.85 per share). As of June 28, 2019, $1.8 billion remained available under the existing stock repurchase authorization.
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding during the period. The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards that were outstanding during the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, and June 29, 2018, using the treasury stock method. Certain of the Company’s outstanding share-based awards, noted in the table above, were excluded because they were anti-dilutive, but they could become dilutive in the future.


item2.txt
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution. Our analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
We generated net revenue of $767.0 million for the three months ended June 28, 2019, a decrease of $127.3 million or 14.2%, as compared with $894.3 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. Net revenue decreased by 10.8% or $310.2 million to $2,549.4 million for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with $2,859.6 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. This decrease in net revenue for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, is primarily related to weakness in smartphone demand, partially offset by the increasing number of applications of the Internet of Things, our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, consumer, industrial, infrastructure, medical, and military, and our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve. Additionally, net revenue for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, was adversely impacted as a result of the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce placing Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and certain of its affiliates (collectively, “Huawei”) on the Bureau’s Entity List (the “Entity List”).
The $139.1 million decrease in gross profit for the three months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily the result of lower average selling prices and lower unit volumes with a gross profit impact of $106.9 million. In addition, we incurred a $66.6 million inventory-related charge due to lower expected demand as a result of Huawei being added to the Entity List. These negative impacts were partially offset by favorable product mix that positively impacted gross profit by $34.4 million. Gross profit margin decreased to 40.7% of net revenue for the three months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with 50.5% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The $249.3 million decrease in gross profit for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily the result of lower average selling prices and lower unit volumes with a gross profit impact of $405.7 million. In addition, we incurred a $66.6 million inventory-related charge due to lower expected demand as a result of Huawei being added to the Entity List. These negative impacts were partially offset by favorable product mix that positively impacted gross profit by $223.0 million. Gross profit margin decreased to 47.0% of net revenue for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with 50.6% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. 
The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily related to increases in legal and software costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 28, 2019, increased as a percentage of net revenue, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, primarily due to the decrease in net revenue. 
The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily related to a decrease in share-based compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, increased as a percentage of net revenue, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due to the decrease in net revenue. 
During the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, $9.2 million and $24.7 million in amortization of intangibles were included in cost of goods sold, respectively, and $5.5 million and $18.6 million in amortization of intangibles were included in selling, general and administrative expense, respectively. During the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, $1.7 million and $4.5 million in amortization of intangibles were included in cost of goods sold, respectively, and $3.9 million and $12.0 million in amortization of intangibles were included in selling, general and administrative expense, respectively.
The effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, were 11.0% and 11.6%, respectively, as compared with 7.8% and 36.0% for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, respectively. The decrease in effective tax rates for the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily due to the enactment of the 2017 Tax Reform Act including a one-time charge related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings and a one-time charge related to the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. 
Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of capital expenditures and cash paid related to the purchase of marketable securities, offset by cash received related to the sale or maturity of marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities was $235.1 million during the nine months ended June 28, 2019, as compared with $809.2 million during the nine months ended June 29, 2018. Purchases of marketable securities were $243.7 million and sales and maturities of marketable securities were $334.4 million during the nine months ended June 28, 2019. The cash used for capital expenditures was $314.0 million in the nine months ended June 28, 2019, primarily related to the purchase of manufacturing equipment to support the expansion of our assembly and test operations, filter production operations, and wafer fabrication facilities. 


item3.txt
Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds and marketable securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity) that total approximately $742.8 million and marketable securities (U.S. Treasury and government securities, corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $192.2 million and $35.1 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of June 28, 2019.
The main objectives of our investment activities are liquidity and preservation of capital. Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. Our marketable securities consist of short-term and long-term maturity periods between 90 days and two years. Credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our investments are diversified across several types of securities with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one investment. 


part2.txt
A substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from shipments to customers located outside the United States, primarily in countries located in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe. In addition, we have suppliers located outside the United States, and third-party packaging, assembly and test facilities and foundries located in the Asia-Pacific region. Finally, we maintain wafer fabrication facilities in Kadoma, Japan, and Osaka, Japan, as well as packaging, assembly and test facilities in Mexicali, Mexico, and in Singapore. 
Additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. Increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. Limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the United States, South Korea, Japan, China, and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues.
We are particularly exposed to risks of doing business in China. Although we intend to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. In 
addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or United States-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. In particular, the imposition by the United States of tariffs on goods imported from China or deemed to be of Chinese origin and other government actions that restrict our ability to sell our products to Chinese customers or to manufacture or source components in China, and countermeasures imposed by China in response, could directly or indirectly adversely impact our manufacturing costs and the sales of our products in China and elsewhere. For example, in May 2019, the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce placed Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and certain of its affiliates on the Bureau’s Entity List, which resulted in our temporarily suspending shipments to Huawei, and which is expected to adversely affect future demand for our products from this customer. Further, the evolving labor market and increasing labor unrest in China may have a negative impact on our customers, which would result in a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Finally, China’s stated policy of reducing its dependence on foreign semiconductor manufacturers and other technology companies could result in reduced demand for our products in China and other key markets as well as reduced supply of critical materials for our products.


