item1.txt
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution. The Company’s analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting. Certain information and footnote disclosures, normally included in annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations. However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented. The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year. This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, filed with the SEC on November 15, 2018, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 25, 2019 (the “2018 10-K”). 
 In August 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) deferred the effective date of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (“ASU 2014-09”), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance. The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance. The Company has determined the impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements is not material. Refer to Note 2, Revenue Recognition, for additional information. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (Topic 320), (“ASU 2016-13”). This ASU requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured on the basis of amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period. This ASU requires that credit losses of debt securities designated as available-for-sale be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. The ASU also limits the credit loss to the amount by which fair value is below 
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Topic 320), (“ASU 2016-01”). This ASU provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), (“ASU 2016-02”). This ASU requires lessees to reflect most leases on their balance sheet as assets and obligations. The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The standard is to be applied under the modified retrospective method, with elective reliefs, which requires application of the new guidance for all periods presented. The adoption of this ASU will result in an increase to the Company’s consolidated balance sheet for these assets and obligations. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Each distinct promise to transfer products is considered to be an identified performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control of the products to the customer. Transfer of control occurs upon shipment to the distributor or direct customer or when products are pulled from consignment inventory by the customer. Point in time recognition was determined as products manufactured under non-cancellable orders create an asset with an alternative use to the Company. Returns under the Company’s general assurance warranty of products have not been material and warranty-
Accounts receivable represents the Company’s unconditional right to receive consideration from its customer. Payments are due within one year of invoicing and do not include a significant financing component. To date, there have been no material impairment losses on accounts receivable. There were no material contract assets or contract liabilities recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in any of the periods presented. All incremental customer contract acquisition costs are expensed as they are incurred as the amortization period of the asset that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less in duration.
The Company has a single reportable operating segment which designs, develops, manufactures and markets similar proprietary semiconductor products, including intellectual property. In reaching this conclusion, management considers the definition of the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”), how the business is defined by the CODM, the nature of the information provided to the CODM and how that information is used to make operating decisions, allocate resources and assess performance. The Company’s CODM is the president and chief executive officer. The results of operations provided to and analyzed by the CODM are at the consolidated level, and accordingly, key resource decisions and assessment of performance are performed at the consolidated level. The Company assesses its determination of operating segments at least annually.
The Company’s revenue to external customers is generated principally from the sale of semiconductor products that facilitate various wireless communication applications. Accordingly, the Company considers its product offerings to be similar in nature and therefore not segregated for reporting purposes.
•Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets), or model-driven valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated with, observable market data.
Contingent consideration related to business combinations is recorded as a Level 3 liability because management uses significant judgments and unobservable inputs to determine the fair value. The Company reassesses the fair value of its contingent consideration liabilities on a quarterly basis and records any fair value adjustments to earnings in the period that they are determined. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined using a probabilistic Black-Scholes pricing model calibrated to the expected revenue forecast to be generated from the acquired business over a one-year period.
The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of its fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. There were no indicators of impairment noted during the three months ended December 28, 2018.
Accrued taxes of $71.6 million and $62.5 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of December 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, respectively. The $224.6 million deemed repatriation tax is payable over the next eight years, $18.0 million per year for each of the next five years, followed by payments of $33.6 million, $44.9 million, and $56.1 million in years six through eight, respectively. The Company has accrued $206.6 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long-term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of December 28, 2018. 
On January 30, 2019, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 30, 2021, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. This newly authorized stock repurchase plan replaces in its entirety the aforementioned January 31, 2018, plan. The timing and amount of any shares of the Company’s common stock that are repurchased under the new repurchase program will be determined by the Company’s management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The Company currently expects to fund the repurchase program using the Company’s working capital.
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding during the period. The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards that were outstanding during the three months ended December 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, using the treasury stock method. Certain of the Company’s outstanding share-based awards, noted in the table above, were excluded because they were anti-dilutive, but they could become dilutive in the future.


item2.txt
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution. Our analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
We generated net revenue of $972.0 million for the three months ended December 28, 2018, a decrease of $79.9 million or 7.6%, as compared with $1,051.9 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. This decrease in net revenue is primarily related to weakness in smartphone demand, partially offset by increasing RF content per smartphone. 
The $51.7 million decrease in gross profit for the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily the result of lower average selling prices and lower unit volumes with a gross profit impact of $170.5 million. These negative impacts were partially offset by favorable product mix that positively impacted gross profit by $119.8 million. Gross profit margin decreased to 49.9% of net revenue for the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with 51.0% in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development–related expenses. Research and development expense increased as a percentage of net revenue as a result of our increased investment in developing new technologies and products. 
The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily related to a decrease in share-based compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent as a percentage of net revenue.
Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income for the period adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain operating assets and liabilities. During the three months ended December 28, 2018, we generated $549.0 million of cash from operating activities, an increase of $188.2 million as compared with the $360.8 million generated during the three months ended December 29, 2017. The increase in cash from operating activities during the three months ended December 28, 2018, was primarily related to an increase in cash generated from collecting receivables and reduced payments of payables totaling $218.7 million. 
Cash provided by investing activities consists of cash received related to the sale or maturity of marketable securities, partially offset by cash paid for capital expenditures and cash paid related to the purchase of marketable securities. Cash provided by investing activities was $171.5 million during the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with $34.2 million cash used in investing activities during the three months ended December 29, 2017. Purchases of marketable securities were $2.2 million and sales and maturities of marketable securities were $303.2 million during the three months ended December 28, 2018. The cash used for capital expenditures was $129.5 million in the three months ended December 28, 2018, primarily related to the purchase of manufacturing equipment to support the expansion of our assembly and test operations, filter production operations, and wafer fabrication facilities. 
Cash and cash equivalent balances were $1,085.7 million as of December 28, 2018, representing an increase of $352.4 million from September 28, 2018. The increase resulted from $549.0 million in cash generated from operations and $301.0 million in net sales and maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $284.0 million used to repurchase 4.0 million shares of stock, $67.1 million in cash dividend payments, $19.4 million used to repurchase shares related to payroll tax withholdings on equity awards, and $129.5 million in capital expenditures. Based on our historical results of operations, we expect that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand and the cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, working capital, quarterly cash dividend payments (if such dividends are declared by the Board of Directors), outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with existing operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital and operating requirements. In addition, any future strategic investments and acquisitions may require additional cash and capital resources. If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash or capital to meet our needs on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected.


item3.txt
The main objectives of our investment activities are liquidity and preservation of capital. Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. Our marketable securities consist of short-term and long-term maturity periods between 90 days and two years. Credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our investments are diversified across several types of securities with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one investment. 
We may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. However, we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. For the three months ended December 28, 2018, we had no outstanding foreign currency forward or option contracts with financial institutions. 


part2.txt
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. 
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement. The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in 
certain competition with the third party. Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020. The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.


