item1.txt
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution. The Company’s highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting. Certain information and footnote disclosures, normally included in annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations. However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented. The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year. This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 26, 2018 (the “2017 10-K”). 
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. As a result of adoption, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $22.5 million to the income tax provision for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards for the six months ended March 30, 2018. The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $22.5 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018. Prior periods have not been adjusted. The Company has elected to account for forfeitures as they occur and will no longer estimate future forfeitures. The change in accounting for forfeitures was applied using a modified retrospective transition method and resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $1.9 million. Forfeitures in the future will now be recorded as a benefit in the period they are realized.
In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance. The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application. We will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and currently expect to apply the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance. We have established a cross-functional team to assess the potential impact of the new revenue standard. The assessment process consists of reviewing our current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to our revenue contracts and identifying appropriate changes to the business processes, systems and controls to support revenue recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard. We are continuing to evaluate the potential impact on our business processes, systems, controls and our consolidated financial statements of the new revenue standard. Based on our preliminary assessments, we do not expect the new guidance to have a material impact on the nature, amount, and timing of our revenue recognition. As we continue to assess the impact of the new guidance on our revenue contracts with our customers and finalize our evaluation of any changes to our accounting policies, internal controls and footnote disclosures, we may identify additional areas of impact and may revise the results of our preliminary assessment. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”). This ASU requires lessees to reflect most leases on their balance sheet as assets and obligations. The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The standard is to be applied under the modified retrospective method, with elective reliefs, which requires application of the new guidance for all periods presented. We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
At March 30, 2018, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $22.2 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment. These amounts accrued for capital equipment purchases have been excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended March 30, 2018, and are expected to be paid in subsequent periods. Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. The description “Contribution of common shares to employee savings plan” has been reclassified from net cash provided by operating activities to net cash used in financing activities. 
The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the three months ended March 30, 2018, resulted primarily from a decrease to tax expense of $16.9 million related to an adjustment to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, and a benefit of $6.3 million related to windfall stock deductions, partially offset by an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions. 
The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the six months ended March 30, 2018, resulted primarily from a one-time charge of $240.9 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of the deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform, and an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, and a benefit of $22.5 million related to windfall stock deductions. 
On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law new tax legislation, which includes, among other things, a reduction of the United States corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax and the domestic production activities deduction, and expensing of certain capital investments. The new law makes fundamental changes to the taxation of multinational entities, including a shift from worldwide taxation with deferral to a hybrid territorial system, featuring a participation exemption regime, a minimum tax on low-taxed foreign earnings, and new measures to deter base erosion and promote export from the United States. The Company expects this tax reform to have significant continued impact on its provision for income taxes and is in the process of evaluating the impact.
Accrued taxes of $21.4 million and $19.3 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of March 30, 2018, and March 31, 2017, respectively. The $240.9 million deemed repatriation tax is payable over the next eight years, $19.3 million per year for each of the next five years, followed by payments of $36.1 million, $48.1 million, and $60.2 million in years six through eight, respectively. The Company has accrued $222.1 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long-term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of March 30, 2018. 
The Company indemnifies its directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of the state of Delaware. The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite. The indemnities to customers in connection with product sales generally are subject to limits based upon the amount of the related product sales and in many cases are subject to geographic and other restrictions. In certain instances, the Company’s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future 
On January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 31, 2020, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. This recently authorized stock repurchase program replaces in its entirety the January 17, 2017, stock repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares of the Company’s common stock that are repurchased under the repurchase program will be determined by the Company’s management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The Company currently expects to fund the repurchase program using the Company’s working capital.
During the three months ended March 30, 2018, the Company paid $111.8 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 1.0 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $109.22 per share). During the six months ended March 30, 2018, the Company paid $284.2 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 2.7 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $106.32 per share). As of March 30, 2018, $888.2 million remained available under the existing stock repurchase authorization.


item2.txt
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution. Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
•Our ending cash and cash equivalents balance increased approximately 16% to $1,881 million as of March 30, 2018, from $1,617 million as of September 29, 2017. This increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily the result of cash generated from operations of $795 million, partially offset by the repurchase of 2.7 million shares of common stock for $284 million, dividend payments of $118 million, and capital expenditures of $119 million during the six months ended March 30, 2018. 
We generated net revenue of $913.4 million for the three months ended March 30, 2018, an increase of $61.7 million or 7.2%, as compared with $851.7 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017. Net revenue increased by 11.3% or $199.3 million to $1,965.3 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with $1,766.0 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017. This increase in net revenue for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from a key smartphone customer as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, offset by decreases in average selling prices.
The $106.2 million increase in gross profit for the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix, lower per-unit materials and manufacturing costs and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $186.1 million. These positive impacts were partially offset by lower average selling prices with a gross profit impact of $79.8 million. Gross profit margin increased to 50.7% of net revenue for the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, due to the overall increase in revenue and the aforementioned factors.
The increase in research and development expenses for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development–related expenses. Research and development expense increased as a percentage of net revenue when compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017 as a result of our increased investment in developing new product capabilities. 
The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee compensation, including share-based compensation. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 30, 2018, increased as a percentage of net revenue due to the aforementioned increase in selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended March 30, 2018, remained consistent as a percentage of net revenue when compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017. 
We recorded a provision for income taxes of $16.3 million (which consisted of $7.8 million and $8.5 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) and $331.5 million (which consisted of $312.7 million and $18.8 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, respectively. 
Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of cash paid for acquisitions net of cash acquired, capital expenditures, cash received from the sale of capital assets, and cash related to the sale or maturity of investments. Cash used in investing activities was $124.5 million during the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with $115.5 million during the six months ended March 31, 2017. The cash used for capital expenditures was $118.5 million in the six months ended March 30, 2018, primarily related to the purchase of manufacturing equipment to support the expansion of our assembly and test operations, filter production operations, and wafer fabrication facilities. During the six months ended March 30, 2018, we also paid $6.0 million related to purchased intangibles.
Cash and cash equivalent balances were $1,881.3 million as of March 30, 2018, representing an increase of $264.5 million from September 29, 2017. The increase resulted from $795.0 million in cash generated from operations which was partially offset by $284.2 million used to repurchase 2.7 million shares of stock, $117.5 million in cash dividend payments, $46.5 million used to repurchase shares related to payroll tax withholdings on equity awards, and $118.5 million in capital expenditures. Based on our historical results of operations, we expect that our cash and cash equivalents on hand and the cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, working capital, quarterly cash dividend payments (if such dividends are declared by the Board of Directors), outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with existing operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital and operating requirements. In addition, any future strategic investments and acquisitions may require additional cash and capital resources. If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash or capital to meet our needs on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Our invested cash balances primarily consist of highly liquid term deposits and money market funds where the underlying securities primarily consist of United States treasury obligations, United States agency obligations and repurchase agreements collateralized by United States government and agency obligations. 
certain competition with the third party. Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020. The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.


item3.txt
The main objectives of our investment activities are liquidity and preservation of capital. Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. Credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our money market and deposits are diversified across several financial institutions with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty. 
Based on our results of operations for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact on income before taxes.


part2.txt
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. 
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement. The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in 
certain competition with the third party. Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020. The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.


