item1.txt
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution. The Company’s highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting. Certain information and footnote disclosures, normally included in annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations. However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented. The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year. This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 26, 2018 (the “2017 10-K”). 
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. As a result of adoption, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $16.2 million to the income tax provision for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $16.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. Prior periods have not been adjusted. The Company has elected to account for forfeitures as they occur and will no longer estimate future forfeitures. The change in accounting for forfeitures was applied using a modified retrospective transition method and resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $1.9 million. Forfeitures in the future will now be recorded as a benefit in the period they are realized.
The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the three months ended December 29, 2017, resulted primarily from a one-time charge of $257.8 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of the deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform, and an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, and a benefit of $16.2 million related to windfall stock deductions. 
On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law new tax legislation, which includes, among other things, a reduction of the United States corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax and the domestic production activities deduction, and expensing of certain capital investments. The new law makes fundamental changes to the taxation of multinational entities, including a shift from worldwide taxation with deferral to a hybrid territorial system, featuring a participation exemption regime, a minimum tax on low-taxed foreign earnings, and new measures to deter base erosion and promote export from the United States. The Company expects this tax reform to have significant continued impact on its provision for income taxes and is in the process of evaluating the impact.
Accrued taxes of $62.5 million and $32.2 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of December 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016, respectively. The $257.8 million deemed repatriation tax is payable over the next eight years, $20.6 million per year for each of the next five years, followed by payments of $38.7 million, $51.6 million, and $64.5 million in years six through eight, respectively. The Company has accrued $237.2 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of December 29, 2017. Certain balances accrued by the Company during the three months ended December 29, 2017, related to the enactment of the legislation, including a charge related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings and the revaluation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, are based on estimates which will be refined during the measurement period as defined in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118.
The Company indemnifies its directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of the state of Delaware. The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite. The indemnities to customers in connection with product sales generally are subject to limits based upon the amount of the related product sales and in many cases are subject to geographic and other restrictions. In certain instances, the Company’s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make. The Company has not recorded any liability for these indemnities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and does not expect that such obligations will have a material adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations. 
On January 17, 2017, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $500 million of its common stock from time to time prior to January 17, 2019, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. During the three months ended December 29, 2017, the Company paid $172.5 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 1.65 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $104.52 per share). As of December 29, 2017, $1.7 million remained available under the existing stock repurchase authorization.
On January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $1 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 31, 2020, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. This newly authorized stock repurchase plan replaces in its entirety the aforementioned January 17, 2017, plan. The timing and amount of any shares of the Company’s common stock that are repurchased under the new repurchase program will be determined by the Company’s 
On February 5, 2018, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had declared a cash dividend on its common stock of $0.32 per share, payable on March 15, 2018, to the Company’s stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 22, 2018. During the three months ended December 29, 2017, the Company declared and paid a $0.32 dividend per common share with a total charge to retained earnings of $58.8 million.


item2.txt
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution. Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
•Net revenue increased by 15% to $1,052 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017. This increase in revenue was primarily driven by our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve, the increasing number of applications for the Internet of Things, and our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, industrial, medical and military. 
•Our ending cash and cash equivalents balance increased approximately 4% to $1,682 million as of December 29, 2017, from $1,617 million as of September 29, 2017. This increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily the result of cash generated from operations of $361 million, partially offset by the repurchase of 1.65 million shares of common stock for $173 million, dividend payments of $59 million, and capital expenditures of $28 million during the three months ended December 29, 2017. 
We generated net revenue of $1,051.9 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017, an increase of $137.6 million or 15%, as compared with $914.3 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017. This increase in net revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2017, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from a key smartphone customer as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, partially offset by decreases in average selling prices.
The $72.9 million increase in gross profit for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $81.2 million. These positive impacts were partially offset by lower average selling prices with a gross profit impact of $8.3 million. Gross profit margin increased to 51.0% of net revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, due to the overall increase in revenue and the aforementioned factors.
The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development– related expenses. Research and development expense increased as a percentage of net revenue when compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017 as a result of our increased investment in developing new product capabilities. 
Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income for the period adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain operating assets and liabilities. During the three months ended December 29, 2017, we generated $360.8 million of cash from operating activities, a decrease of $135.1 million as compared with the $495.9 million generated during the three months ended December 30, 2016. The decrease in cash flow from operating activities during the three months ended December 29, 2017, was primarily related to a net change in cash outflows of $156.3 million related to a decrease in accounts payable as a result of the timing of vendor payments. 
Cash and cash equivalent balances were $1,681.5 million as of December 29, 2017, representing an increase of $64.7 million from September 29, 2017. The increase resulted from $360.8 million in cash generated from operations which was partially offset by $172.5 million used to repurchase 1.65 million shares of stock, $59.1 million in cash dividend payments, $44.7 million used to repurchase shares related to payroll tax withholdings on equity awards, and $28.2 million in capital expenditures. Based on our historical results of operations, we expect that our cash and cash equivalents on hand and the cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, working capital, quarterly cash dividend payments (if such dividends are declared by the Board of Directors), outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with existing operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital and operating requirements. In addition, any future strategic investments and acquisitions may require additional cash and capital resources. If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash or capital to meet our needs on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Our invested cash balances primarily consist of highly liquid term deposits with original maturities of 90 days or less and money market funds where the underlying securities primarily consist of United States treasury obligations, United States agency obligations and repurchase agreements collateralized by United States government and agency obligations. 
On January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program, pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock from time to time prior to January 31, 2020, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. This newly authorized stock repurchase plan replaces in its entirety the aforementioned January 17, 2017 plan. The timing and amount of any shares of the Company’s common stock that are repurchased under the new repurchase program will be determined based on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. We currently expect to fund the repurchase program using our working capital.
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement. The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in certain competition with the third party. Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020. The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.


item3.txt
The main objectives of our investment activities are liquidity and preservation of capital. Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. Credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our money market and deposits are diversified across several financial institutions with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty. 
We may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. However, we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. 
In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance. We will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application. We have established a cross-functional team to assess the potential impact of the new revenue standard. The assessment process consists of reviewing its current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to our revenue contracts and identifying appropriate changes to the business processes, systems and controls to support revenue recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard. We are currently evaluating the potential impact on our business processes, systems, controls and our consolidated financial statements of the new revenue standard and do not anticipate significant changes to our statement of operations. Our assessment will be completed during fiscal year 2018 at which time the method of adoption will be selected.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”), which requires lessees to reflect most leases on their balance sheet as assets and obligations. The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The standard is to be applied under the modified retrospective method, with elective reliefs, which requires application of the new guidance for all periods presented. We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.


part2.txt
On January 30, 2018, the Compensation Committee (the “Compensation Committee”) of the Company’s Board of Directors amended the Company’s Fiscal Year 2018 Executive Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) to provide that the portion of the incentive awards under the Incentive Plan that previously was attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP earnings per share (“EPS”) performance metric will instead be attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP operating income performance metric. The non-GAAP operating income performance metric was established by the Compensation Committee on November 7, 2017, concurrently with the non-GAAP EPS performance metric.
The Compensation Committee approved the change in metrics in light of the favorable impact on the Company’s non-GAAP EPS for fiscal year 2018 that is now expected as a result of the new U.S. tax legislation, which was enacted on December 22, 2017, as well as the potential favorable impact on non-GAAP EPS of the Company’s new stock repurchase program. The Compensation Committee believes this change maintains the original rigor of the performance incentive objectives of the Incentive Plan. No other changes were made to the Incentive Plan.
Effective January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved and adopted an amendment to our Third Amended and Restated By-laws (the “By-laws”) to grant stockholders the right to call a special meeting of stockholders. Prior to the adoption of this provision, a special meeting of stockholders could only be called pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors.
Article II, Section 3 of the By-laws has been amended to permit stockholders who, individually or in the aggregate, own at least 25% of our outstanding shares of common stock and who have held such shares continuously for at least one year prior to their request, to call a special meeting of stockholders, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the By-laws.


