fls.txt
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Forward-Looking Statements") with respect to the business of the Company.


item1.txt
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company's significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
Upon adoption, the new revenue standards replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.
Apart from this adjustment and the inclusion of additional required disclosures in Note 2, the adoption of the new revenue standards did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a "right-of-use" model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses will depend on classification as a finance or operating lease.
The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements.
We are currently in the process of evaluating this new standard update.
In accordance with ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services.
Our revenues are substantially derived from sales of our products.
In our power solutions and protection group, we provide intelligent, efficient and reliable AC-DC and DC-DC power conversion devices and circuit protection products.
In our magnetic solutions group, we provide an extensive line of integrated connector modules (ICM), where an Ethernet magnetic solution is integrated into a connector package.
Products within the Company's magnetic solutions group are primarily used in networking and industrial applications.
Actual warranty repair costs are charged against the reserve balance as incurred.


item2.txt
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
When we cross-reference to a "Note," we are referring to our "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements," unless the context indicates otherwise.
All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the PRC.
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
The backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products increased by 25%, driven by recent awards on key military programs, and heightened structured cabling demand for our passive connectors.
Our Power Solutions and Protection backlog grew by 19%, led by higher demand for our power supplies in both traditional data centers and those used for blockchain technology.
·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first half of 2018 increased from 10.2% of sales during the first half of 2017 to 11.4% of sales during the first half of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products.


item3.txt
During the first half of 2018, the U.S. Dollar was in a weakened position (compared to the first half of 2017) against most other currencies in which the Company pays its expenses.


part2.txt
Item 1A.


