fls.txt
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Forward-Looking Statements") with respect to the business of the Company.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made.
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers.
Subsequently, the FASB issued several other updates related to revenue recognition (collectively with ASU 2014-09, the "new revenue standards" or "ASC 606").
Upon adoption, the new revenue standards replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.
In connection with the modified retrospective application of the new revenue standards, we recorded an adjustment to increase retained earnings of $3.4 million upon the January 1, 2018 adoption date.
Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance.
The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements.
We are currently in the process of evaluating this new standard update.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605.
Our revenues are substantially derived from sales of our products.
In our power solutions and protection group, we provide intelligent, efficient and reliable AC-DC and DC-DC power conversion devices and circuit protection products.


item2.txt
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
When we cross-reference to a "Note," we are referring to our "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements," unless the context indicates otherwise.
All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the PRC.
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
Sales of our Connectivity Solutions products were also higher in the first quarter of 2018 with an increase in demand related to various military programs and within the industrial market for oil and gas, test and measurement, and broadcasting applications.
·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first quarter of 2018 increased from 10.2% of sales during the first quarter of 2017 to 11.3% of sales during the first quarter of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi and Peso against the U.S. Dollar, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products.
The Company has significant manufacturing operations located in the PRC and in Mexico where labor and overhead costs are paid in local currencies.


item3.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


