fls.txt
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these Forward-Looking Statements which may be necessary to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.


item1.txt
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted from the following condensed consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations, including the interim reporting requirements, of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a “right-of-use” model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses will depend on classification as a finance or operating lease.
Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance.
The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements.
In addition, we elected the transition package of three practical expedients permitted within the standard, which eliminates the requirements to reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
Further, we elected a short-term lease exception policy, permitting us to not apply the recognition requirements of this standard to short-term leases (i.e. leases with terms of 12 months or less) and an accounting policy to account for lease and non-lease components as a single component for certain classes of assets.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets in the amount of $20.7 million and lease liabilities related to our operating leases in the amount of $21.0 million on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019.
See Note 12, Leases, for Topic 842 disclosures in connection with the adoption of ASU 2016-02.
It is expected that 21% of this aggregate amount will be recognized in 2020, 54% will be recognized in 2021 and the remainder will be recognized in years beyond 2021.
Level 3 – Unobservable inputs about which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions.


item2.txt
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
When we cross-reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.
All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries.
Bel’s portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
·   Revenues – The Company’s revenues decreased by $6.2 million (or 2.4%) in the first half of 2019 as compared to the same period of 2018.
·   Backlog – Our backlog of orders amounted to $150.9 million at June 30, 2019, a decline of $20.3 million, or 12%, from December 31, 2018.
Since year-end, we saw an 8% increase in the backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products, primarily driven by additional orders from our military customers.
The backlog of orders for our Power Solutions and Protection products declined by 17% and backlog for our Magnetic Solutions products was down 29% from year-end 2018 levels.


item3.txt
During the first half of 2019, the U.S. Dollar was stronger against most other currencies in which the Company pays its expenses.


part2.txt
We are also involved in various other legal actions incidental to our business.


