Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“Forward-Looking Statements”) with respect to the business of the Company.In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made.
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted from the following condensed consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations, including the interim reporting requirements, of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a “right-of-use” model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses will depend on classification as a finance or operating lease.
Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance.
The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements.
In addition, we elected the transition package of three practical expedients permitted within the standard, which eliminates the requirements to reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
When we cross-reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.
All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
·   Backlog – Our backlog of orders amounted to $166.8 million at March 31, 2019, a decline of $4.4 million, or 3%, from December 31, 2018.