fls.txt
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“Forward-Looking Statements”) with respect to the business of the Company.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these Forward-Looking Statements which may be necessary to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


item1.txt
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted from these condensed consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations, including the interim reporting requirements, of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The Company’s significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, except as discussed in “Recently Adopted Accounting Standards” below.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a “right-of-use” model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses will depend on classification as a finance or operating lease.
Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance.
The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements.
In addition, we elected the transition package of three practical expedients permitted within the standard, which eliminates the requirements to reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
Further, we elected a short-term lease exception policy, permitting us to not apply the recognition requirements of this standard to short-term leases (i.e. leases with terms of 12 months or less) and an accounting policy to account for lease and non-lease components as a single component for certain classes of assets.
The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations that have not been satisfied as of September 30, 2019 related to contracts that exceed one year in duration amounted to $15.7 million, with expected contract expiration dates that range from 2020 - 2025.
It is expected that 20% of this aggregate amount will be recognized in 2020, 57% will be recognized in 2021 and the remainder will be recognized in years beyond 2021.
Level 3 – Unobservable inputs about which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions.
Nonfinancial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets, are accounted for at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
These items are tested for impairment upon the occurrence of a triggering event.


item2.txt
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
When we cross-reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.
All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits.
These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries.
Bel’s portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead.
Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the People’s Republic of China (PRC).
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


