Operating Results. Operating income for the second quarter of 2018 was $24.1 million, or an 11.3% operating income margin percentage, compared to $24.2 million, or a 12.6% operating income margin percentage for the second quarter of 2017, with the decrease in operating margin reflective of costs associated with the integration of Business Ink and the continued increase in planned investments aimed at generating future long-term growth in our business. 
As discussed in Note 5 to the Financial Statements, on February 28, 2017 we acquired Business Ink, a multi-channel communications company based in Austin, Texas, for approximately $70 million, excluding acquisition-related expenses. This represents a purchase price of slightly over one times historical revenues. For the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2018, Business Ink contributed cloud and related solutions revenues of $15.7 million and $21.0 million, respectively, of and was slightly dilutive to our results of operations when factoring in acquired amortization expense.  
We are one of the world’s largest and most established business support solutions (“BSS”) providers, primarily serving some of the most well-known communications, information, and content companies around the globe. We help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape, bringing more than thirty-five years of experience supporting the world’s most respected service providers. We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.  
We offer BSS and revenue management, customer experience and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands. Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention. 
Diluted EPS. Diluted EPS for the second quarter of 2018 was $0.46 compared to $0.35 for the second quarter of 2017, with the increase mainly attributed a lower effective income tax rate, primarily resulting from the U.S. Tax Reform enacted in December 2017. 
As a result of the application of ASC 606, $3.5 million of investments in client contracts have been included in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018. Previous to the adoption of ASC 606, investments in client contracts were included in investing activities. 
Acquisitions. In February 2018, we acquired Business Ink, a privately-held multi-channel business communications company based in Austin, Texas for approximately $70 million. The acquisition was funded from currently available cash. Our acquisition of Business Ink is discussed in more detail in Note 5 to our Financial Statements. 
We generate approximately 70% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, logistics, and transportation. Additionally, during the six months ended June 30, 2018 we generated approximately 85% of our revenues from the Americas region, approximately 10% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and approximately 5% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region. 
Capital Expenditures. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we spent $26.7 million on capital expenditures. As of June 30, 2018, we had committed to purchase approximately $16 million of equipment.  
During the first quarter of 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement primarily to extend the term of the loan from February 2020 to March 2023 and obtain a reduction in the interest rate and other fees. The 2018 Credit Agreement increased our liquidity and capital resources position by approximately $30 million.  
Cash and Cash Flows. As of June 30, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $186.4 million, as compared to $222.1 million as of March 31, 2018 and $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017. Our cash flows from operating activities for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 were $(3.6) million, which were negatively impacted by an increase in accounts receivable primarily related to the timing around a recurring client payment that was delayed at quarter-end. See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows. 
Repurchase of Common Stock. During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, we repurchased 0.3 million shares of our common stock under the guidelines of our Stock Repurchase Program for $11.3 million and $10.5 million, respectively.  
Cash flows from operating activities for the second quarter of 2018 was negatively impacted primarily by the increase in the accounts receivable balance mainly related to the timing of a recurring payment from a significant client that was delayed and received subsequent to quarter-end. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we generated approximately 87% of our revenues in U.S. dollars. We expect that, in the foreseeable future, we will continue to generate a very large percentage of our revenues in U.S. dollars.  
Due to foreign operations around the world, our balance sheet and income statement are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk due to the fluctuations in the value of currencies in which we conduct business. While we attempt to maximize natural hedges by incurring expenses in the same currency in which we contract revenue, the related expenses for that revenue could be in one or more differing currencies than the revenue stream.  Item 6. Exhibits  Item 1. Legal Proceedings  
The following table presents information with respect to purchases of company common stock made during the second quarter of 2018 by CSG Systems International, Inc. or any “affiliated purchaser” of CSG Systems International, Inc., as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange Act. 