Operating Results. Operating income for the third quarter of 2019 was $33.4 million, or a 13.3% operating margin percentage, compared to $25.7 million, or a 12.0% operating margin percentage for the third quarter of 2018. The increase in operating income is primarily a result of higher revenues generated in the third quarter of 2019.  
Revenues. Revenues for the third quarter of 2019 were $251.4 million, an 18% increase when compared to revenues of $213.1 million for the third quarter of 2018, with the increase mainly attributed to the additional revenues generated from the acquisition of Forte on October 1, 2018, and the continued growth in our cloud solutions and managed service arrangements. 
We are one of the world’s leading revenue management and digital monetization, customer experience, and payment solutions providers, and a trusted partner to some of the most well-known communications, media, and entertainment companies around the globe. We leverage more than 35 years of experience to help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape. Drawing from real-world knowledge and unparalleled expertise, we design and implement business solutions that make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter so they can focus on evolving their businesses to provide highly sophisticated and competitive multi-product offerings while also delivering increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences that meet the ever-changing demands of their customers across all stages of the customer lifecycle.  
We offer revenue management, customer experience, and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands. Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention. 
Client Concentration. A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our two largest clients, which are Comcast and Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”). 
Operating Cash Flows. As described in the Liquidity section above, we believe we have the ability to generate strong cash flows to fund our operating activities and act as a source of funds for our capital resource needs.  
We generate approximately 60% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation. Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 we generated 87% of our revenues from the Americas region, 9% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and 4% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region. 
Repurchase of Common Stock. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we repurchased approximately 485,000 and 395,000 shares of our common stock, respectively, under the guidelines of our Stock Repurchase Program for $20.6 million and $16.9 million, respectively, and paid $21.0 million and $16.8 million, respectively, through September 30, 2019 and 2018 (with the differences attributed to the timing of share settlement ).  
We continue to transition our focus towards more predictable recurring revenues models with our managed services arrangements and delivery of our cloud-based solutions and away from large transactional software and services deals with related maintenance agreements. 
Transaction fees are primarily comprised of interchange and other payment-related fees that we pay, in conjunction with the delivery of service to clients under our payment services contracts, to third-party payment processors and financial institutions. Because we control the integrated service provided under our payment services client contracts, these transaction fees are presented gross, and not netted against revenues. 
During the first quarter of 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement and as a result, we repaid the outstanding principal balance of $120.0 million and borrowed $150.0 million under the 2018 Credit Agreement, resulting in a net increase of available cash of $30.0 million. As part of the refinancing, we paid $1.5 million of deferred financing costs.  
Cash and Cash Flows. As of September 30, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $172.0 million, as compared to $131.5 million as of June 30, 2019 and $162.9 million as of December 31, 2018. Our cash flows from operating activities for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 were $79.1 million. See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we generated approximately 88% of our revenues in U.S. dollars. We expect that, in the foreseeable future, we will continue to generate a very large percentage of our revenues in U.S. dollars.  
Due to foreign operations around the world, our balance sheet and income statement are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk due to the fluctuations in the value of currencies in which we conduct business. While we attempt to maximize natural hedges by incurring expenses in the same currency in which we contract revenue, the related expenses for that revenue could be in one or more differing currencies than the revenue stream.  Portions of the exhibit have been omitted pursuant to SEC rules regarding confidential information.  Item 1. Legal Proceedings  
The following table presents information with respect to purchases of our common stock made during the third quarter of 2019 by CSG Systems International, Inc. or any “affiliated purchaser” of CSG Systems International, Inc., as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange Act. 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  