The net fair value of these contracts at December 31, 2017 was a net liability of approximately $4 million, of which approximately $8 million is included in “Other current assets” and approximately $12 million is included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The carrying values of financial instruments classified as current assets and current liabilities, such as cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts payable, accrued expenses and short-term borrowings, approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of the instruments.
Item 1A.
The Company does not currently expect Topic 606 will have a significant effect on the timing of revenue recognition for its maintenance, Software-as-a-Service and professional services contracts.
2016-15 (ASU 2016-15), Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (Topic 230), which is intended to reduce diversity in practice on how certain cash receipts and cash payments are classified and presented in the statements of cash flows.
ASU 2016-16 requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences on intercompany asset transfers (excluding inventory) at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under current GAAP.The 1% increase in total revenue backlog at December 31, 2017 compared with December 31, 2016 was primarily due to the favorable effect of foreign exchange.
Cash and cash equivalents totaled $2,971 million at December 31, 2017, representing an increase of $200 million from the March 31, 2017 balance of $2,771 million.
Total revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2017 primarily due to an increase in software fees and other revenue.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, the Company’s financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements.
The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in vendor disbursements and payroll of $160 million attributable to disbursements from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions and an increase in other disbursements, net of $15 million, offset by an increase in cash collections from billings of $124 million attributable to collections from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions and a decrease in income tax payments, net of $43 million compared with the year-ago period.
We are unable to predict with certainty the amount of cash to be collected from single installments for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, under new or renewed license agreements to be executed in future periods.
Enterprise Solutions revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively, primarily due to revenue generated from our Automic and Veracode acquisitions of $62 million and $161 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively.
The license and maintenance agreements that contribute to subscription and maintenance bookings represent binding payment commitments by customers over periods that range generally from three to five years, although in certain cases customer commitments can be for longer or shorter periods.
Enterprise Solutions operating margin for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased compared with the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively, primarily due to costs associated with our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, which were mainly personnel-related.
This new law includes a provision that imposes a transition tax on foreign earnings whether or not such earnings are repatriated to the U.S. and resulted in our recognition of income tax expense of $220 million for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Excluding our Automic and Veracode acquisitions, total bookings decreased by a percentage in the high teens.
There was a favorable foreign exchange effect of $14 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.