Although the Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption of ASU 2018-02, it does not currently expect the adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, creating new ASC Topic 606 (“Topic 606”) that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP.
ASU 2017-04 will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and requires a prospective method of adoption.
Arrangements that include a software license sold with more than one year of maintenance for the license use a value relationship which reflects an annual maintenance rate of 20% of the total value ascribed to the right to use the software.
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment within 30 to 60 days of the invoice.
Although the Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption of ASU 2017-04, it does not currently expect the adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption and the effect that ASU 2018-15 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The Company recognizes a contract asset when it transfers products or services to a customer and the right to consideration is conditional on something other than the passage of time.The software product revenue assigned to our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments is based on either (1) a list price allocation method (which allocates a discount in the total contract price to the individual products in proportion to the list price of the products); (2) allocations included within internal contract approval documents; or (3) the value for individual software products as stated in the customer contract.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $97 million, international revenue increased primarily due to an increase in subscription and maintenance and SaaS revenue, as well as a favorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
To achieve this, we have built a portfolio of solutions that enable customers to leverage the benefits of agility, automation, insights and security in managing business processes and technology investments.
There was a $136 million favorable foreign currency translation effect on our cash balances for the first half of fiscal 2018 predominantly due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro (11%), the British pound sterling (7%) and the Canadian dollar (7%).
We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise required by law.
This hybrid cloud capability helps customers remove the barriers between ideas and business outcomes.
Enterprise Solutions revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue and a favorable foreign exchange effect of $4 million, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis.
Under the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Company common stock (other than shares that were (i) owned or held in treasury by the Company or owned by Broadcom or Merger Sub and (ii) owned by any wholly owned subsidiary of Broadcom or of the Company) was cancelled and automatically converted into the right to receive $44.50 in cash, without interest.
•Agile Operations helps customers correlate end-user, application and infrastructure data from cloud-hosted containers to mainframes.
Our strong market position enables our investment in development, innovation and support of the mainframe platform to be among the largest in the industry, which sustains ongoing customer commitment to our Mainframe Solutions.