fls.txt



item1.txt
•The diversion of our employees’ attention due to activities related to the proposed transaction.
Refer to Note 2 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” for additional details on contract costs.
The Company recognizes deferred revenue when it has received consideration or an amount of consideration is due from the customer and the Company has a future obligation to transfer products or services.
The net fair value of these contracts at June 30, 2018 was a net asset of approximately $13 million, of which approximately $21 million was included in “Other current assets” and approximately $8 million was included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Company’s contracts generally contain more than one of the products and services listed above, each of which is separately accounted for as a distinct performance obligation.
Service contracts are generally less than one year and accordingly, as a practical expedient, commissions paid for service contracts are expensed as incurred.
The value relationship the Company uses to allocate consideration between the license and maintenance performance obligations is derived from the observable relationship of the selling price of a standalone perpetual license maintenance renewal to the related perpetual license fee, which is generally 20% of the net license fee for one year of maintenance.
Topic 606 was adopted by the Company effective April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
The Company may modify contracts to offer customers additional products or services.
ASU 2016-02 will replace most existing lease accounting guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective.
The Company may also become involved with contract issues and disputes with customers.
Although the Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption of ASU 2017-04, it does not currently expect the adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The Company is subject to collateral security arrangements with most of its major counterparties.


item2.txt
Our segments strengthen each other in several ways.
•Our Services segment helps customers reach their information technology (“IT”) and business goals primarily by enabling the rapid implementation and adoption of our software solutions.
On May 2, 2018, our Board of Directors approved the Fiscal 2019 Plan to better align its business priorities.
At June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, $56 million and $60 million, respectively, of these lines of credit were pledged in support of bank guarantees and other local credit lines.
We are focused on maintaining and expanding the strong relationships with our established customer base, and will proactively target growth with other potential customers that we do not currently serve.
CA is one of the few companies positioned to deliver solutions that span mobile, cloud, open systems and mainframe environments.
The Services segment is comprised of product implementation, consulting, customer education and customer training services, including those directly related to our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions software that we sell to our customers.
Net cash used in financing activities for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $199 million compared with $166 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Our solution is hosted on a unified application security testing platform and integrates into existing development toolchains.
The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash collections from billings of $113 million mainly attributable to lower single installment collections, partially offset by a decrease in vendor disbursements and payroll of $81 million compared with the year-ago period.
•Agile Operations helps customers correlate end-user, application and infrastructure data from cloud-hosted containers to mainframes.
Excluding the impact of discrete items for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, our estimated annual effective tax rate was 20.9% and 28.6%, respectively.
There was an $88 million favorable foreign currency translation effect on our cash balances for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 predominantly due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro (7%), the British pound sterling (4%), and the Israeli shekel (4%), partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real (6%).
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, gross receipts related to single installments for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, were $95 million, all of which was billed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.


part2.txt
Item 1A.


