Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week fiscal year and fiscal 2018 was a 53-week fiscal year.
Therefore, the first six months of fiscal 2019 included one less week of operations as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018.
An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, diversify our product portfolio, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce, expand our technical skill sets or enhance our technological capabilities.
The demand for our products is subject to the strength of our four major end markets of Industrial, Communications, Automotive and Consumer.
We also rely upon external cloud providers for certain infrastructure activities.
We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email.
We may not be able to compete successfully in markets within the semiconductor industry in the future.
•negative media publicity targeting us or our suppliers, customers or competitors.
Acquisitions, investments and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory approvals, and difficulties related to integration efforts.
The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted in periods when demand for our products has increased or decreased rapidly.
While we have significant expertise in semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes could become unstable.Consumer end market revenues decreased in the six-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year as a result of decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications and one less week of operations in the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Consumer end market revenues decreased in the three-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year as a result of decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications.
Communications end market revenue increased in the six-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, as a result of an increase in demand for our products sold into the wireless sector and to a lesser extent wireline sector of this end market, partially offset by one less week of operations in the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2018.An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, diversify our product portfolio, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce, expand our technical skill sets or enhance our technological capabilities.
Our future success depends upon our ability to execute our business strategy, continue to innovate, improve our existing products, design, develop, produce and market new products, and identify and enter new markets.
The demand for our products is subject to the strength of our four major end markets of Industrial, Communications, Automotive and Consumer.
We also rely upon external cloud providers for certain infrastructure activities.
We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email.