Fiscal 2018 is a 53-week fiscal year and fiscal 2017 was a 52-week fiscal year.
An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, diversify our product portfolio, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce, expand our technical skill sets or enhance our technological capabilities.
The demand for our products is subject to the strength of our four major end markets of Industrial, Communications, Automotive and Consumer.
Product warranty expenses during each of the three- and six-month periods ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017 were not material.
Therefore, the first six months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2017.
We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email.
We may not be able to compete successfully in markets within the semiconductor industry in the future.
Acquisitions, investments and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory approvals, and difficulties related to integration efforts.
•negative media publicity targeting us or our suppliers, customers or competitors.
•The primary source of revenue for each operating segment is the sale of ICs.
While we have significant expertise in semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes could become unstable.Europe included $92.1 million and $179.5 million of revenue in the three- and six-month periods ended May 5, 2018, respectively, as compared to $41.5 million of revenue in the three- and six-month periods ended April 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition.
The Rest of Asia included $61.3 million and $125.4 million of revenue in the three- and six-month periods ended May 5, 2018, respectively, as compared to $31.7 million of revenue in the three- and six-month periods ended April 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition.
Additionally, Communications end market revenue increased in the six-month period ended May 5, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, as a result of an additional week of operations in the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2017.
Additionally, Industrial end market revenue increased in the six-month period ended May 5, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, as a result of an additional week of operations in the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2017.An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, diversify our product portfolio, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce, expand our technical skill sets or enhance our technological capabilities.
Our future success significantly depends on our continued ability to execute our business strategy, continue to improve our existing products and design, develop, produce and market innovative new products.
Our future success depends upon our ability to execute our business strategy, continue to innovate, improve our existing products, design, develop, produce and market new products, and identify and enter new markets.
The demand for our products is subject to the strength of our four major end markets of Industrial, Communications, Automotive and Consumer.