fls.txt
You should read this document completely and with the understanding that our actual future results or events may be materially different from what we expect.


item1.txt
The new standard eliminates the exception for an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory and requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences when the transfer occurs.
The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
At this time, anticipating the amount of any future IRS proposed adjustments, interest and penalties is not practicable.
The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs.
Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017.
 Item 1A.
However, there can be no assurance that management’s beliefs will be realized.
In addition to derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and qualify for hedge accounting, the Company also enters into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity.
References in this report to “the Company,” “Jabil,” “we,” “our,” or “us” mean Jabil Inc. together with its subsidiaries, except where the context otherwise requires.
On September 1, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of True-Tech Corporation (“True-Tech”) for approximately $95.9 million in cash, which remains subject to adjustment based on review of the actual net assets of the acquisition as of the closing date.
The primary market risks managed by the Company through the use of derivative instruments are foreign currency risk and interest rate risk.
Total segment assets are defined as accounts receivable, inventories, net customer-related property, plant and equipment, intangible assets net of accumulated amortization and goodwill.
The contracts will be settled with the respective counterparties on a net basis at each settlement date.
The annual tax benefit (expense) for unrealized gains on derivative instruments is not material for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
Upon completion of the 2017 Restructuring Plan, the Company expects to recognize approximately $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs.


item2.txt
Restructuring and Related Charges.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, we sold $1.1 billion of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.1 billion.
Refer to Note 6 – “Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
Additionally, our foreign subsidiaries have various additional credit facilities that finance their future growth and any corresponding working capital needs.
Upon completion of the 2017 Restructuring Plan, we expect to recognize approximately $195.0 million in restructuring and related charges.
The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the timing of sales and cash collections activity as well as higher sales levels.
However, we anticipate that we will enter into a new borrowing agreement to repay our 8.250% Senior Notes prior to maturity.
During the three months ended May 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
Refer to Note 6 – “Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Registrant agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.


part2.txt
 Item 5.


