fls.txt
Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward-looking statements will be realized.


item1.txt
Transfers of the receivables under the programs are accounted for as sales and, accordingly, net receivables sold under the programs are excluded from accounts receivable on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) completed its field examination of the Company’s tax returns for fiscal years 2009 through 2011 and issued a Revenue Agent’s Report (“RAR”) on May 27, 2015, which was updated on June 22, 2016.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Amortization of fulfillment costs was $9.8 million and $29.7 million, respectively, for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019.
Accordingly, the special purpose entity associated with the foreign asset-backed securitization program is included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Differences included in contract liabilities as of September 1, 2018.
Recorded initially at fair value as prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are valued using unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs), primarily discounted cash flows, and due to their credit quality and short-term maturity the fair values approximated book values.
The Company will recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount of the capitalized costs exceeds the recoverable amount.
This guidance was adopted on a modified retrospective basis and an immaterial cumulative-effect adjustment was recorded, which reduced retained earnings as of September 1, 2018.
References in this report to “the Company,” “Jabil,” “we,” “our,” or “us” mean Jabil Inc. together with its subsidiaries, except where the context otherwise requires.
A hedging relationship existed with an aggregate notional amount outstanding of $135.9 million and $293.4 million as of May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively.
Refer to Note 16 – “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
There is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the North American asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
The Company assesses the capitalized fulfillment costs for impairment at the end of each reporting period.
On November 27, 2018, the Company entered into a new North American asset-backed securitization program.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to address the presentation of certain transactions within the statement of cash flows with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice.
The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value.


item2.txt
We are currently evaluating the fair values of the assets and liabilities related to this business combination.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million.
We continue to assess our capital structure and evaluate the merits of redeploying available cash to reduce existing debt or repurchase common stock.
Net cash used in investing activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 consisted primarily of capital expenditures principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments and expenditures for assets acquired in connection with the initial and second closings of the acquisition of JJMD, partially offset by proceeds and advances from the sale of property, plant and equipment and cash receipts on sold receivables under the asset-backed securitization programs.
The 2017 Restructuring Plan, totaling $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs, is substantially complete as of May 31, 2019.
Refer to Note 8 – “Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the programs.
As of May 31, 2019, the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors had been repurchased.
As of May 31, 2019, the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors had been repurchased.
As of May 31, 2019, we had up to $55.1 million in available liquidity under our asset-backed securitization programs.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
None.


