fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur, or of which we hereafter become aware.


item1.txt
 (3) There is no tax benefit (expense) related to the available for sale securities components of AOCI, including reclassification adjustments, for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018.
The Company has applied SAB 118, recorded a provisional estimate related to certain effects of the Tax Act, and provided required disclosures in Note 14 – “Income Taxes.”
The unobservable inputs consist of estimated credit losses and estimated discount rates, which both have an immaterial impact on the fair value calculations.
Upon completion of the 2017 Restructuring Plan, the Company expects to recognize approximately $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard, which replaces the existing incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
Goodwill will be considered impaired when the carrying amount of a reporting unit that includes goodwill exceeds its fair value.
On October 6, 2017, the Company’s Compensation Committee approved the modification of vesting criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2015.
Fees include a facility fee based on the revolving credit commitments of the lenders and a letter of credit fee based on the amount of outstanding letters of credit.
The effective portions of the swaps amortized to interest expense during the three months ended February 28, 2018 was not material.
Early application is permitted for certain transactions.
As of February 28, 2018, the Company has $2.2 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.
 (1) The notes are carried at the principal amount of each note, less any unamortized discount and unamortized debt issuance costs.
The Company has made certain reclassification adjustments to conform prior periods’ Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to the current presentation.
The new standard eliminates the exception for an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory and requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences when the transfer occurs.
 (3) There is no tax benefit (expense) related to the available for sale securities components of AOCI, including reclassification adjustments, for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018.
Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.


item2.txt
As of the date of this report, other than the borrowings on the 3.950% Senior Notes and payments on the 8.250% Senior Notes discussed in Note 6 – “Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business since August 31, 2017 to our contractual obligations and commitments.
As of February 28, 2018, 8.2 million shares had been repurchased for $225.0 million and $225.0 million remains available under the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.
Management believes that the non-GAAP “core” financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition costs and certain purchase accounting adjustments, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, other than temporary impairment on securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations and certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges.
As a result of the Tax Act, we are analyzing the indefinite reinvestment assertion and cash repatriation plan.
The effective tax rate of 56.5% for the three months ended February 28, 2018 decreased from the effective tax rate of 58.3% for the three months ended February 28, 2017 primarily due to (a) reduced losses in jurisdictions with existing valuation allowances, driven in part by lower restructuring expense; and (b) $16.1 million of tax benefits from the lapse of statute in a non-U.S. jurisdiction.
Amortization of intangibles increased to $9.9 million and $19.9 million during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2018, respectively, compared to $8.8 million and $17.1 million during the three months and six months ended February 28, 2017, respectively, primarily due to amortization from intangible assets related to the Lewis Engineering and True-Tech acquisitions that occurred in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, respectively.
In connection with our asset-backed securitization programs, as of February 28, 2018, we sold $1.1 billion of eligible trade accounts receivable, which represents the face amount of total sold outstanding receivables at that date.
The net proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes, including to redeem $400.0 million of our outstanding 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 and pay related costs and a “make-whole” premium.
As of February 28, 2018, 8.2 million shares had been repurchased for $225.0 million and $225.0 million remains available under the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
As of the date of this report, other than the borrowings on the 3.950% Senior Notes and payments on the 8.250% Senior Notes discussed in Note 6 – “Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business since August 31, 2017 to our contractual obligations and commitments.


item3.txt



item4.txt
None.


part2.txt
None.


