fls.txt
Furthermore, the inclusion of forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that future events, plans or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved.


item1.txt
However, there can be no assurance that management’s beliefs will be realized.
The unobservable inputs consist of estimated credit losses and estimated discount rates, which both have an immaterial impact on the fair value calculations.
 Item 1A.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
The interest rate swaps have an aggregate notional amount of $200.0 million and have been designated as hedging instruments and accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Prior to the adoption of the new standard, the Company recognized substantially all of its revenue from contracts with customers at a point in time, which was generally when the goods were shipped to or received by the customer, title and risk of ownership had passed, the price to the buyer was fixed or determinable and collectability was reasonably assured (net of estimated returns).
The Company’s forward foreign exchange contracts are measured on a recurring basis at fair value, based on foreign currency spot rates and forward rates quoted by banks or foreign currency dealers.
The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs.
Recorded to other expense within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company is currently evaluating the fair values of the assets and liabilities related to this business combination.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
The transaction price of each performance obligation is generally based upon the contractual stand-alone selling price of the product or service.
The Company expects to reclassify $5.9 million into earnings during the next twelve months, which will primarily be classified as a component of cost of revenue.
The increase in cash flow from investing activities and the corresponding decrease to cash flow from operating activities upon adoption of the standard was $96.8 million and $1.2 billion for the six months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $410.5 million, $508.0 million and $463.3 million, respectively, as of February 28, 2019.
In connection with this transaction, the Company pays interest based upon a fixed rate as agreed upon with the respective counterparties and receives variable rate interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR.
The contracts will be settled with the respective counterparties on a net basis at each settlement date.
The interest rate swaps have an aggregate notional amount of $200.0 million and have been designated as hedging instruments and accounted for as cash flow hedges.


item2.txt
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
Production levels for a portion of the DMS segment are subject to seasonal influences.
Production levels for a portion of the DMS segment are subject to seasonal influences.
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis.
The program will be automatically extended through August 21, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
Based on net revenue for the six months ended February 28, 2019, our largest customers include Amazon.com, Inc., Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
The two subsequent closings, which are subject to customary closing conditions, are expected to occur during the second half of fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2020.
We derived a substantial majority, 88.2% and 90.6%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and six months ended February 28, 2019.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16 — “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
 Item 1A.


