fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur, or of which we hereafter become aware.


item1.txt
Refer to Note 16 – “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
In addition to derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and qualify for hedge accounting, the Company also enters into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 48% of its net revenue and 75 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
Assets acquired of $114.7 million, including $25.9 million in intangible assets and $22.6 million in goodwill, and liabilities assumed of $18.8 million were recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
The new standard is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires the Company to recognize revenue in a manner which depicts the transfer of goods or services to its customers at an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
The Company disagrees with and intends to contest the proposed income tax payments assessed.
A hedging relationship existed with an aggregate notional amount outstanding of $451.3 million and $293.4 million as of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018, respectively.
Pro forma information has not been provided as the acquisition of True-Tech is not deemed to be significant.
The interest rate swaps have an aggregate notional amount of $350.0 million and have been designated as hedging instruments and accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Upon completion of the 2017 Restructuring Plan, the Company expects to recognize approximately $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs.
The Company is deemed the primary beneficiary of this special purpose entity as the Company has both the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive the benefits that could potentially be significant to the entity from the transfer of the trade accounts receivable into the special purpose entity.
Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
The Company assesses the capitalized fulfillment costs for impairment at the end of each reporting period.
The Company disagrees with and intends to contest the proposed income tax payments assessed.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
The remaining amount for the three months ended November 30, 2017 was primarily classified as a component of cost of revenue.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
Also, the IRS has proposed interest and penalties with respect to fiscal years 2009 through 2011.


item2.txt
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $2.9 million and $10.3 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
Interest expense increased during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, due to additional borrowings on our credit facilities and higher interest rates.
During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
Includes $4.4 million and $5.9 million recorded in the EMS segment, $1.6 million and $4.6 million recorded in the DMS segment and $0.0 million and $0.9 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
During the three months ended August 31, 2018 and May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to increased sales activity during the quarter.
As of November 30, 2018, we had up to $322.1 million in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable sale programs.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 10% due to (i) a 6% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and (ii) a 4% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business.
The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution.
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets.


item3.txt



item4.txt
None.


part2.txt
The share repurchase program expires on August 31, 2019.


