fls.txt
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution.
The Company’s analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 25, 2019 (the “2018 10-K”).
In addition, significant judgment is required in determining whether a potential indicator of impairment of long-lived assets exists and in estimating future cash flows for any necessary impairment testing.
Refer to Note 2, Revenue Recognition, for additional information.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity Transfers of an Asset Other than Inventory (“ASU 2016-16”).
Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
amortized cost.
This ASU expands the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Topic 350), Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract (“ASU 2018-15”).
The new guidance clarifies the accounting for implementation costs in cloud computing arrangements.
The Company adopted ASU 2018-15, on a prospective basis, during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company will utilize the modified retrospective method and will recognize any cumulative effect adjustment in retained earnings at the beginning of the period of adoption.


item2.txt
This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity.
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
Our analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
We market and sell our products directly to OEMs of communications and electronics products, third-party original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components distributors.
This decrease in net revenue for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2019, is primarily related to weakness in smartphone demand, partially offset by the increasing number of applications of the Internet of Things, our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, consumer, industrial, infrastructure, medical, and military, and our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve.


item3.txt
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.
Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds and marketable securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity) that total approximately $742.8 million and marketable securities (U.S. Treasury and government securities, corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $192.2 million and $35.1 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of June 28, 2019.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some such lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company.
Item 1A.


