fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.


item1.txt
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2018.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term from operating leases.
For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities.
In transition, lessees and lessors were originally required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach.
This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.
The new standard provides optional practical expedients in transition, which the Company has elected as a package permitting the Company to not reassess under the new standard prior conclusions regarding lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting” (“ASU 2018-07”), which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions.
It expands the scope of ASC 718 to include share-based payments granted to nonemployees in exchange for goods or services used or consumed in the entity’s own operations and supersedes the guidance in ASC 505-50.


item2.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and less than $0.1 million during the three months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.9 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Diluted income per share for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $0.41 compared to diluted loss per share of $0.25 for the same period in the prior year.
Net income excluding the impact of separation expenses, net of taxes (non-GAAP) for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $1.9 million compared to $0.9 million for the same period in the prior year.
Diluted earnings per share excluding separation expenses, net of taxes (non-GAAP) for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $0.43 compared to $0.20 for the same period in the prior year.
In subsequent periods, the accounts receivable is increased to the amounts due and payable by the customers through the accretion of interest income on the unpaid accounts receivable due in future years.
In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.
Under the fair value recognition provision, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term from operating leases.
For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities.
This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
(1)    Includes 1,887 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.


