fls.txt



item1.txt
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Net sales include products and shipping and handling charges, net of estimates for product returns.
Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
This AOCI component is included in the computation of net periodic pension costs.
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.
The Company then compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value to assess if goodwill has been impaired.
There were no stock options exercised under this Plan during either of the nine months ended September 30, 2018 or 2017.
The Incentive Plan expires on May 10, 2026.
The RSUs are offered at no cost to the employees.
Dividends declared are accrued in cash.
As of September 30, 2018, there was $.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to time-based RSUs that is expected to be recognized over the weighted-average remaining period of approximately 1.9 years.


item2.txt
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947.
We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries.
Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires.
We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures.
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment.
We evaluate segment performance and allocate resources based on several factors primarily based on sales and net income.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Gross profit for both three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $33.5 million.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, gross profit increased $1.4 million, or 4.2%, compared to 2017.
Costs and expenses of $25.5 million increased $1.8 million compared to 2017, including a favorable impact from currency translation of $1.9 million.


item3.txt
The Company believes that the political and economic risks related to the Company’s international operations are mitigated due to the geographic diversity in which the Company’s international operations are located.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The ultimate outcomes of these matters are not predictable with certainty.


