fls.txt



item1.txt
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full-year ending December 31, 2018.
Net sales include products and shipping and handling charges, net of estimates for product returns.
An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
Accordingly, interim LIFO calculations are based on management’s estimates of expected year-end inventory levels and costs.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
No contributions were made to the Plan during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The Company anticipates contributing $.5 million of additional funding to the Plan during the second quarter of 2018.
This AOCI component is included in the computation of net periodic pension costs.
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.
The Company then compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value to assess if goodwill has been impaired.
Based on the assumptions as to growth, discount rates and the weighting used for each respective valuation methodology, results of the valuations could be significantly different.
There were no stock options exercised during either of the three months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017.
No further awards will be made under the LTIP and previously granted awards remain outstanding in accordance with their terms.


item2.txt
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947.
We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries.
Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires.
Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
The operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are compared to the same period in 2017.
Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $98.1 million increased $13.6 million, or 16%, compared to 2017.
Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $31.5 million increased $6.9 million, or 27.8%, compared to 2017.
Gross profit increased $6.2 million, or 25.2%, compared to 2017, excluding the favorable impact from currency translation.


item3.txt
The Company believes that the political and economic risks related to the Company’s international operations are mitigated due to the geographic diversity in which the Company’s international operations are located.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The ultimate outcomes of these matters are not predictable with certainty.


