fls.txt



item1.txt
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $30.3 million at September 30, 2019 and $29.5 million at December 31, 2018.
An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
During the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.1 million and $.5 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
During the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.6 million and $1.1 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
No contributions were made to the Plan during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
This AOCI component is included in the computation of net periodic pension costs.
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.
For both the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, 15,000 stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
For both of the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, no stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as there was no anti-dilutive effect.
Refer to Note S, “Business Combinations” for further information regarding additions.
Refer to Note S, “Business Combinations” for further information regarding additions.


item2.txt
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947.
We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries.
Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires.
We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures.
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible.
The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, gross profit increased $6.9 million, or 21%, compared to 2018.
Costs and expenses of $27.7 million increased $2.2 million compared to 2018 and included a favorable impact from currency translation of $1.1 million.
The effect of currency translation had virtually no impact on operating income or net income.


item3.txt
The Company believes that the political and economic risks related to the Company’s international operations are mitigated due to the geographic diversity in which the Company’s international operations are located.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The ultimate outcomes of these matters are not predictable with certainty.


