See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
Net sales include products and shipping and handling charges, net of estimates for product returns.
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $26.7 million at June 30, 2018 and $25.1 million at December 31, 2017.
An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
Accordingly, interim LIFO calculations are based on management’s estimates of expected year-end inventory levels and costs.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
This AOCI component is included in the computation of net periodic pension costs.
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947.
We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries.
Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
The operating results for the three months ended June 30, 2018 are compared to the same period in 2017.
Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 of $108.9 million increased $11.4 million, or 11.7%, compared to 2017.
Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2018 of $35.2 million increased $5.5 million, or 18.6%, compared to 2017.