fls.txt



item1.txt
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
See notes to consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 8, 2019 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Company estimates product returns based on historical return rates.
An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
No contributions were made to the Plan during the three months ended June 30, 2019.
This AOCI component is included in the computation of net periodic pension costs.
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.
The Company performs its annual impairment test for goodwill utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology, market comparables, and an overall market capitalization reasonableness test in computing fair value by reporting unit.
Refer to Note S, “Business Combinations” for further information regarding additions.
There were no stock options exercised under this Plan during either of the six months ended June 30, 2019 or 2018.
The Company maintains an equity award program to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining, and motivating officers, employees and directors and to provide an incentive to those individuals to increase shareholder value through long-term incentives directly linked to the Company’s performance.
No further awards will be made under the LTIP and previously granted awards remain outstanding in accordance with their terms.


item2.txt
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947.
Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires.
We evaluate segment performance and allocate resources based on several factors primarily based on sales and net income.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
The operating results for the three months ended June 30, 2019 are compared to the same period in 2018.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, gross profit increased $4.1 million, or 12%, compared to 2018.
Costs and expenses of $26.7 million increased $.8 million compared to 2018, including a favorable impact from currency translation of $1.0 million.
The effect of currency translation had unfavorable impacts on operating income of $.5 million and net income of $.4 million.
The operating results for the six months ended June 30, 2019 are compared to the same period in 2018.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of currency translation, gross profit increased $1.2 million, or 2%, compared to 2018.
Costs and expenses of $51.9 million increased $2.3 million compared to 2018 which included a favorable impact from currency translation of $2.7 million.


item3.txt
The Company believes that the political and economic risks related to the Company’s international operations are mitigated due to the geographic diversity in which the Company’s international operations are located.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The ultimate outcomes of these matters are not predictable with certainty.


