fls.txt



item1.txt
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination.
The three-level hierarchy discussed below indicates the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair-value measurements.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 7 million and 5 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the second quarters of 2019 and 2018, and 9 million and 5 million shares outstanding during the first six months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to RSUs and excluded from the calculation of income allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
Consequently, we cannot reasonably estimate any future liabilities that may result.
As of June 30, 2019, we had a variable-rate revolving credit facility from a consortium of investment-grade banks that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024.
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
We verify these valuations for reasonableness relative to unadjusted quotes obtained from brokers or dealers based on observable prices for similar assets in active markets.
Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of being incurred.
We utilize a third-party data service to provide Level 2 valuations.


item2.txt
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.
Other revenue decreased by $57 million.
Over the last 12 months, our dividends represented 47% of free cash flow, underscoring their sustainability.
Financing activities for the first six months of 2019 used $2.44 billion compared with $1.86 billion in the year-ago period.
This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production.
We have returned $8.0 billion to shareholders in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends.
Operating profit increased by $6 million.
Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations.
Days sales outstanding at the end of the second quarter of 2019 were 35 compared with 29 at the end of 2018.
Interest and debt expense of $82 million increased $29 million due to the issuance of additional long-term debt.
No expiration date has been specified for these authorizations.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.2 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations.
The decrease was due to a lower annual operating tax rate and lower income before income taxes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter.
Section 1350.†


