fls.txt



item1.txt
We classify our investments as available for sale, trading, equity method or non-marketable equity.
We accrue for known product-related claims if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.
When collection is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made.
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of March 31, 2018.
The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (ASC 605).
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The following are our assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis.
We plan to adopt this standard during the interim period in which we complete our accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act, applying the guidance to the period of adoption.
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Acquisition charges represent the ongoing amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of National Semiconductor Corporation.
Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products.
The offering is expected to close on May 7, 2018.
We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on our financial position.


item2.txt
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No.
Revenue increased 11 percent from the same quarter a year ago.
Dividends paid were $611 million compared with $500 million in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding.
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
Embedded Processing revenue increased in both product lines, led by Processors.
We used $873 million to repurchase 8.2 million shares of our common stock compared with $550 million used in the year-ago period to repurchase 7.1 million shares.
We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.
Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments.
Our revolving credit facility is with a consortium of investment-grade banks and allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2023.
The offering is expected to close on May 7, 2018.
In addition to open-market purchases, 467,544 shares of common stock were surrendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter.
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $7.5 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 17, 2015.


