fls.txt



item1.txt
Reflects charges for impacts of accelerated depreciation and changes in exchange rates.
For royalty income from licensing our patent portfolios, income is allocated to performance obligations that have not yet been satisfied.
This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2019, and must be applied on a modified retrospective basis.
Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products.
As of June 30, 2018, we had a variable-rate revolving credit facility from a consortium of investment-grade banks that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2023.
Revenue from products shipped into China, including Hong Kong, was $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion in the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $3.3 billion and $3.1 billion in the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We verify these valuations for reasonableness relative to unadjusted quotes obtained from brokers or dealers based on observable prices for similar assets in active markets.
For royalty income from licensing our patent portfolios, income is allocated to performance obligations that have not yet been satisfied.
Our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income include items that have been recognized within Net income during the first six months of 2018 and 2017.
We maintain a line of credit to support commercial paper borrowings, if any, and to provide additional liquidity through bank loans.
Our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income include items that have been recognized within Net income during the first six months of 2018 and 2017.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
We have a variety of types of contracts with our customers and distributors.
Gross realized gains and losses from these sales were not material.
Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to receive dividends or dividend equivalents, such as our restricted stock units (RSUs), are considered to be participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating EPS.


item2.txt
Capital expenditures were $438 million compared with $278 million in the year-ago period and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in both periods.
See Note 9 to the financial statements.
This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production.
We use “annual operating tax rate” to describe the estimated annual effective tax rate.
Broadest reach of market channels.
This increase was due to higher Net income and a reduction in cash used for working capital, both of which benefited from a lower tax rate.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter.
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
This increase was due to higher Net income and a reduction in cash used for working capital, both of which benefited from a lower tax rate.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.


item4.txt



part2.txt
No expiration date has been specified for these authorizations.


