fls.txt



item1.txt
Our stated warranties for semiconductor products obligate us to repair, replace or credit the purchase price of a covered product back to the buyer.
Level 1 – Uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
Level 1 – Uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
We utilize a third-party data service to provide Level 2 valuations.
As of September 30, 2018, we had $68 million of remaining performance obligations that had not yet been satisfied.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
In accordance with the practical expedients available in the guidance, we do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less.
The results for the three- and nine-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
The following are our assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis.
This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
Risk Factors.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on our financial position.


item2.txt
In our core businesses, Analog revenue grew 8 percent and Embedded Processing declined 4 percent from the same quarter a year ago.
This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Other revenue decreased by $103 million, and operating profit declined by $54 million.
We continue to expect our ongoing annual operating tax rate to be about 20 percent in 2018 and about 16 percent starting in 2019.
High Volume revenue decreased.
Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
Embedded Processing revenue increased in both product lines about equally.
Other revenue decreased by $27 million, and operating profit declined by $14 million.
We used $3.09 billion to repurchase 28.6 million shares of our common stock compared with $1.85 billion used in the year-ago period to repurchase 23.2 million shares.
Our revolving credit facility is with a consortium of investment-grade banks and allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2023.
Operating profit was $5.20 billion, or 43.1 percent of revenue, compared with $4.52 billion, or 40.3 percent of revenue.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
Additionally, in the first nine months of 2018, we issued $1.50 billion principal amount of 4.15 percent notes maturing in 2048 and retired $500 million of maturing debt.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


