The results for the three- and nine-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
As of September 30, 2019, we had a variable-rate revolving credit facility from a consortium of investment-grade banks that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to RSUs and excluded from the calculation of income allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
Acquisition charges represent the ongoing amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of National Semiconductor Corporation.
We did not recognize any credit losses related to available-for-sale investments for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018.
The Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2019, are not audited but reflect all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature and are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the periods shown.See Note 5 to the financial statements.
Operating profit was $1.59 billion, or 42.1% of revenue, compared with $1.94 billion, or 45.5% of revenue.
See Note 2 to the financial statements for detailed information regarding the status of new accounting and reporting standards.
•Diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions.
The decrease was due to higher discrete tax benefits, lower income before income taxes and, to a lesser extent, a lower annual operating tax rate.
Net income was $1.43 billion compared with $1.57 billion.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
Gross profit of $7.07 billion was down $803 million, or 10%, primarily due to lower revenue.
Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations.Section 1350.†