fls.txt



item1.txt
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported.
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30.
2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), providing thirteen corrections and improvements to the new revenue standard.
The aforementioned revenue standards and amendments are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019.
The new standards and amendments may be adopted retrospectively for all periods presented, or adopted using a modified retrospective approach.
The modified retrospective approach will be used as our method of adoption.
The aforementioned lease standards and amendments are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The new standards and amendments are to be applied using a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients and an optional transition method.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Current guidance requires companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty.


item2.txt
Our high performance sensors provide controls for a variety of applications measuring acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure, force and sound.
In order to accelerate our revenue growth over the next five years, investments in infrastructure, sales support and field service capacity and capability are essential.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs.
Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 0.5% primarily driven by growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by lower Test revenue.
Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog which takes longer to convert to revenue, partially offset by continued growth in the Test materials sector.
Revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 declined 1.1% primarily driven by lower Test revenue, partially offset by growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog which takes longer to convert to revenue, partially offset by continued growth in the Test materials sector.
Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 1.0% primarily driven by higher Sensors revenue volume, partially offset by lower Test revenue volume.
Gross margin rate increased 0.2 percentage points primarily due to leverage on Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 1.2% and the gross margin rate increased 0.3 percentage points.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, assuming all other variables are held constant, would result in an increase or decrease in revenue of approximately $22,719 for the nine months ended June 30, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are or may be involved in various legal proceedings from time to time arising from the normal course of business.
The transfer of certain Test production operations in China to our new contract manufacturing partner may be subject to delays, increased costs or other unanticipated consequences.


