fls.txt



item1.txt
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported.
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30.
Fiscal year 2019 ending on September 28, 2019 will consist of 52 weeks.
The following accounting policies have been updated since our fiscal year 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments, on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
Our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance are included in Note 3.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new lease standard"), which requires lessees to recognize most leases on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The new lease standard requires enhanced disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a company's leases.
Adoption of the new lease standard is required for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The new guidance is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective transition method, and an optional transition method may be elected to use the effective date as the date of initial application on transition.
We intend to adopt the new lease standard for our fiscal year 2020 under the optional transition method with an effective date of September 29, 2019.
We are currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs, and we are currently evaluating the other practical expedients available under the new lease standard.
We continue to make progress with preparation for the adoption and implementation of the new lease standard, including assessing the completeness of our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients and accounting policy elections, revising our lease-related accounting policies, assessing impacts to controls, and implementing a lease software solution.
We anticipate the adoption of the new lease standard will result in an increase in assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Under the new revenue standard, a company recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.


item2.txt
On November 21, 2018, we acquired E2M Technologies B.V. (E2M) for a cash purchase price of $80,287.
We funded the acquisition of E2M through borrowings on our Revolving Credit Facility.
In fiscal year 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
See Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Income Statements and Consolidated Balance Sheets.
See Notes 3, 16 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on the new revenue standard, restructuring and related costs, and the E2M acquisition, respectively.
Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended June 29, 2019 increased 3.6% primarily due to increased compensation expense to support sales growth, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
Selling and marketing expense for the nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased 4.2% primarily due to increased compensation and commissions expense to support sales growth and the addition of E2M expenses, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
Interest expense, net for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2019 increased primarily due to an increase in interest expense on the revolving credit facility drawn on in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 to fund the acquisition of E2M, which was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense related to lower balances on the tranche B term loan, as well as current year favorable effects of our interest rate swap.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, assuming all other variables are held constant, would result in an increase or decrease in revenue of approximately $25,701 for the nine months ended June 29, 2019.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information below includes additional and updated risks relating to our $350,000 aggregate principal amount 5.750% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (the Notes) and other indebtedness.
As of June 29, 2019, we had $468,357 outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities.


