fls.txt



item1.txt
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported.
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30.
2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), providing thirteen corrections and improvements to the new revenue standard.
The aforementioned revenue standards and amendments are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019.
The new standards and amendments may be adopted retrospectively for all periods presented, or adopted using a modified retrospective approach.
We currently anticipate utilizing the modified retrospective approach as our method of adoption.
This change may have a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition in our Test segment.
Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The amendment is to be applied using either a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients, with early adoption permitted.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Current guidance requires companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.


item2.txt
Our high performance sensors provide controls for a variety of applications measuring acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure, force and sound.
We believe we can create value for our customers by helping to enhance the precision, improve the reliability and create superior safety for their products, while reducing the delivery time to market for their products.
In order to accelerate our revenue growth over the next five years, investments in infrastructure, sales support and field service capacity and capability are essential.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives.
The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 6.0% and 5.3%, respectively.
Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2018 declined 5.1% primarily driven by lower Test revenue volume, partially offset by higher Sensors revenue volume.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 8.9% and the gross margin rate declined 1.3 percentage points.
Gross profit for the six months ended March 31, 2018 increased 0.3% primarily driven by to the prior year impact of the PCB acquisition inventory adjustment of $7,724 and increased Sensors revenue volume, partially offset by reduced Test revenue volume.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, assuming all other variables are held constant, would result in an increase or decrease in revenue of approximately $15,023 for the six months ended March 31, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The transfer of certain Test production operations in China to our new contract manufacturing partner may be subject to delays, increased costs or other unanticipated consequences.
On March 13, 2018, we announced workforce reductions and manufacturing facility closures in our Test segment corresponding to the transfer of certain production operations in China to a contract manufacturing partner.


