fls.txt
Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, ROIC, EBITDA, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, capital structure, the adequacy of our liquidity and reserves, the anticipated level of expenditures required and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, merger or acquisition activity and the potential impact of newly acquired businesses; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements; (iv) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators or statements relating to our order cancellation history, our ability to convert our backlog of undelivered orders into revenue, the timing of purchases, competitive advantages and growth in end markets; (v) statements regarding our ability to report additional operating segments, to raise capital in a timely manner or to compete acquisitions in the future; (vi) statements regarding products, their characteristics, fluctuations in the costs of raw materials for products, our geographic footprint, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers; and (vii) statements regarding the estimated tax benefits we receive under the Tax Act and our expectations concerning recorded adjustments.


item1.txt
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," the "Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported.
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30.
2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), providing thirteen corrections and improvements to the new revenue standard.
The aforementioned revenue standards and amendments are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019.
The new standards and amendments may be adopted retrospectively for all periods presented, or adopted using a modified retrospective approach.
We currently anticipate utilizing the modified retrospective approach as our method of adoption.
Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients, with early adoption permitted.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Current guidance requires companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty.


item2.txt
Our high performance sensors provide controls for a variety of applications measuring acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure, force and sound.
We believe we can create value for our customers by helping to enhance the precision, improve the reliability and create superior safety for their products, while reducing the delivery time to market for their products.
In order to accelerate our revenue growth over the next five years, investments in infrastructure, sales support and field service capacity and capability are essential.
the impact in our first quarter of fiscal year 2018 results.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs.
As a result of the PCB acquisition, we incurred certain non-recurring costs during fiscal year 2017 including acquisition integration costs and a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory.
Test revenue decreased $12,923 primarily driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017.
Gross profit for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased 6.1% primarily due to the prior year impact from the PCB acquisition driven by a fair value adjustment on acquired inventory of $7,724 and increased current year revenue volume in Sensors, partially offset by reduced revenue volume in Test.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 5.9% and the gross margin rate declined 0.6 percentage points.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, assuming all other variables are held constant, would result in an increase or decrease in revenue of approximately $6,832 for the three months ended December 30, 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are or may be involved in various legal proceedings from time-to-time arising from the normal course of business.
The risks described below and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.


