fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required for complete consolidated financial statements.
The Company’s results for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
The terms “fiscal 2019” and “fiscal 2018” refer to our fiscal years ending April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. (“American Software”) and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”).
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaced the previous revenue recognition guidance.
The Company adopted the new revenue standard effective May 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
However, unlike current GAAP, which requires only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard will require both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet.
Nature of Products and Services.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.
The total amount of expense reimbursement included in professional services and other revenue was approximately $336,000 and $1.1 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively, and approximately $419,000 and $1.4 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.


item2.txt
We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.
Corporate capital spending trends and commitments are the primary determinants of the size of the market for business software.
In January 2019, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook for 2018 and 2019.
The update noted that, “Global growth for 2018 is estimated at 3.7 percent, as in the October 2018 World Economic Outlook (WEO) forecast, despite weaker performance in some economies, notably Europe and Asia.
The global economy is projected to grow at 3.5 percent in 2019 and 3.6 percent in 2020, 0.2 and 0.1 percentage point below last October’s projections.
For fiscal 2019, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
Customers continue to take long periods to evaluate discretionary software purchases.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Software topic of the FASB ASC.
Our selling expenses mainly include the salary and commissions paid to our sales professionals, along with marketing, promotional, travel and associated costs.
•Acquisition Risks.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency.
In each of the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, we generated approximately 17% and 19% of our revenues, respectively, outside the United States.


item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings Item 1A.Risk Factors Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information None.


