fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries Basic per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B shares.
Diluted per share amounts for Class A shares are shown above.
Diluted earnings per share for Class B shares under the two-class method are $0.04 and $0.08 for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, and $0.09 and $0.17 for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
See Note D to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The terms “fiscal 2019” and “fiscal 2018” refer to our fiscal years ending April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaces the existing revenue recognition guidance.
The Company adopted the new revenue standard effective May 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
The Company’s total revenue impact is $1.2 million, with approximately 70% impacting the fiscal year ending April 30, 2019, which is the result of recognizing revenue for the license component of its term licenses and certain perpetual license contracts that were previously recognized over time due to the lack of vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value at the point-in-time at which control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet was an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase to contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.


item2.txt
We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.
Corporate capital spending trends and commitments are the primary determinants of the size of the market for business software.
In October 2018, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook (“WEO”) for the 2018 and 2019 world economic growth forecast.
Growth projections have been marked down for the euro area and the United Kingdom, following surprises that suppressed activity in early 2018.
China and a number of Asian economies are also projected to experience somewhat weaker growth in 2019 in the aftermath of the recently announced trade measures.” For fiscal 2019, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
Customers continue to take long periods to evaluate discretionary software purchases.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Software topic of the FASB ASC.
Our selling expenses mainly include the salary and commissions paid to our sales professionals, along with marketing, promotional, travel and associated costs.
Acquisition Risks.
This increase was partially offset by a 18% decrease in license revenues.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency.
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $108,000 and of $355,000 for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, respectively, compared to an exchange rate loss of approximately $41,000 and a gain of $400 for the three months and six months ended October 31, 2017, respectively.


item4.txt
None.


part2.txt
Item 1.


