fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries Basic per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B Common Shares.
Diluted per share amounts for Class A Common Shares are shown above.
Diluted earnings per share for Class B Common Shares under the two-class method are $0.05 and $0.09 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
See Note D to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaces the existing revenue recognition guidance.
The Company adopted the new revenue standard effective May 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
The Company’s total revenue impact is $1.2 million, with approximately 70% impacting the fiscal year ending April 30, 2019, which is the result of recognizing revenue for the license component of its term licenses and certain perpetual license contracts that were previously recognized over time due to the lack of vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet is expected to be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase to contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually.


item2.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.
The rate of expansion appears to have peaked in some major economies and growth has become less synchronized.
Growth projections have been revised down for the euro area, Japan, and the United Kingdom, reflecting negative surprises to activity in early 2018.
Growth projections have been revised down for Argentina, Brazil, and India, while the outlook for some oil exporters has strengthened.” For fiscal 2019, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
Customers continue to take long periods to evaluate discretionary software purchases.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
Acquisition Risks.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency.
We recorded an exchange rate loss of approximately $247,000 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 compared to an exchange rate gain of $41,000 for the same period in the prior year.


item4.txt
None.


part2.txt
Item 1.


