fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
The Company’s results for the three months ended July 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
However, unlike prior GAAP, which required only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard requires both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet.
The adoption had no impact on retained earnings, the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, or the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.
Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
Maintenance for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer.
Indirect Channel Revenue.
Sales Taxes.
Significant Judgments.
We allocate the transaction price to distinct performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling price (“SSP”).
When performing relative selling price allocations, we use the contract price as the estimate of SSP if it falls within the Company’s range estimate of SSP, since any point within the range would be a valid price point on a standalone basis.


item2.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
All forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Quarterly Report.
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.
Corporate capital spending trends and commitments are the primary determinants of the size of the market for business software.
Against this backdrop, global growth is forecast at 3.2 percent in 2019, picking up to 3.5 percent in 2020 (0.1 percentage point lower than in the April WEO projections for both years).
For fiscal 2020, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year.
Customers continue to take long periods to evaluate discretionary software purchases.
The Company enables enterprises to accelerate their operations from product concept to customer availability.
The Other segment consists of software and services provided to our legacy enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) customers, as well as corporate overhead and other common expenses.
We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Software topic of the FASB ASC.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency.
Interest Rates and Other Market Risks.


item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings Item 1A.Risk Factors None.


