fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory.
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (formerly referred to as the “cloud systems and solutions”) portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
Such adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature.
The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 3, 2018.
The fiscal quarters ended September 28, 2018, June 29, 2018, and September 29, 2017, are also referred to herein as the “September 2018 quarter ”, the “June 2018 quarter” and the “September 2017 quarter”, respectively.
The Company elected a practical expedient to expense sales commissions when the commissions are incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less.
In February 2016 and July 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, and Leases, ASU 2018-11, Leases (ASC Topic 842), Target improvements, respectively.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15 (ASC Subtopic 350-40), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software - Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.
This ASU aligns the accounting for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the accounting for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.


item2.txt
We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
References to “$” are to United States dollars.
Risk Factors” of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018, which we encourage you to carefully read.
Our Company.
Overview of our business.
Overview of the September 2018 quarter.


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk.
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio including investment in debt security in Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”, formerly known as “K.K.
The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of September 28, 2018.


item4.txt
There were no significant changes to our internal control over financial reporting due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.


part2.txt
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1.


