fls.txt
These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and are based on management’s current views and assumptions.


item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, reliability, high quality and cost effectiveness.
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (“EDS”) portfolio includes storage subsystems for enterprises, cloud service providers, scale-out storage servers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).
The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 2, 2019.
The fiscal quarters ended October 4, 2019, June 28, 2019 and September 28, 2018, are also referred to herein as the “September 2019 quarter”, the “June 2019 quarter”, and the “September 2018 quarter”, respectively.
Accordingly, the Company applied the new lease accounting standard prospectively to leases existing or commencing on or after June 29, 2019.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and the corresponding lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments and ROU assets are based on the lease liability, adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives received and the lessee’s initial direct costs.
Additionally, the Company’s lease term may include options to extend or terminate the lease.
These options are reflected in the ROU asset and lease liability when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option.
The Company’s lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees.
Variable lease payments not dependent on an index or a rate primarily consist of common area maintenance charges, are expensed as incurred, and are not included in the ROU asset and lease liability calculation.


item2.txt
The September 2019 quarter was 14 weeks and the June 2019 quarter and September 2018 quarter were each 13 weeks.
You should read this discussion in conjunction with financial information and related notes included elsewhere in this report.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
References to “$” are to United States dollars.
•Critical Accounting Policies.
For an overview of our business, see “Part I, Item 1.
We repurchased an aggregate principal amount of $620 million of certain outstanding senior notes in connection with the Tender Offers and borrowed $500 million under the Term Loan.


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk.
We determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of October 4, 2019.
In the September 2019 quarter, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $500 million to convert the variable interest rate on the Term Loan to fixed interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Financial Statements—Note 13.


