fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The information as of June 29, 2018 was derived from the Company’s audited Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 29, 2018.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory.
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (formerly referred to as the “cloud systems and solutions”) portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
Such adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature.
The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 3, 2018.
The fiscal quarters ended December 28, 2018, September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, are also referred to herein as the “December 2018 quarter”, the “September 2018 quarter” and the “December 2017 quarter”, respectively.
The Company elected a practical expedient to expense sales commissions when the commissions are incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less.
In February 2016 and July 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, and Leases, ASU 2018-11, Leases (ASC Topic 842), Target Improvements, respectively.
These ASUs amend a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.


item2.txt
We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
References to “$” are to United States dollars.
cyber-attacks or other data breaches that disrupt the Company’s operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information and cause reputational harm, and the cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities associated with the Company’s infrastructure updates to its information technology systems.
Our Company.
Critical Accounting Policies.
We are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs.


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk.
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio including investment in debt security in Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”, formerly known as “K.K.
We determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 28, 2018.


item4.txt
Effective February 5, 2019, Gianluca Romano, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will also serve as principal accounting officer replacing Geraldine Hottier-Fayon who had been serving as the Company’s interim principal accounting officer.


part2.txt
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1.


