fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory.
The Company’s cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud.
Its portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
Such adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature.
Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current period’s presentation.
The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 4, 2017.
The fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2018, December 29, 2017, and March 31, 2017, are also referred to herein as the “March 2018 quarter”, the “December 2017 quarter”, and the “March 2017 quarter”, respectively.
There have been no significant changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies.
ASC Topic 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.


item2.txt
The March 2018, December 2017 and March 2017 quarters were all 13 weeks.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
References to “$” are to United States dollars.
•   Our Company.
Overview of our business.
We are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs.
In addition to HDDs, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHD”) and storage subsystems.


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk.
The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of March 30, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Financial Statements—Note 14.


