fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory.
The Company’s cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud.
Its portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
Such adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature.
Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current period’s presentation.
The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 4, 2017.
The fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2017, September 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016, are also referred to herein as the “December 2017 quarter”, the “September 2017 quarter”, and the “December 2016 quarter”, respectively.
There have been no significant changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies.
ASC Topic 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
Accordingly, the Company will need to estimate variable consideration (e.g. rebates) related to customer incentives on these arrangements.


item2.txt
We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
You should read this discussion in conjunction with financial information and related notes included elsewhere in this report.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
References to “$” are to United States dollars.
Risk Factors” of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, which we encourage you to carefully read.
•   Our Company.
Overview of our business.
An analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discussion of our financial condition including the credit quality of our investment portfolio and potential sources of liquidity.


item3.txt
Interest Rate Risk.
The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 29, 2017.


item4.txt



part2.txt
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1.


