fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all wholly owned divisions, including its 60% majority-owned subsidiary, Taitron Components Mexico, S.A. de C.V. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Certain amounts in the prior year condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense.
We have evaluated the impact of adopting this guidance and we are preparing for the changes to be made to our consolidated financial statements.
In March 2016, the FASB issued new accounting standard which simplified certain aspects of the accounting for stock-based payment transactions, including income taxes, classification of awards and classification in the statement of cash flows.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
In January 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.
This guidance will be effective for the Company for the year ending December 31, 2019 and interim reporting periods within that year.
Early adoption is permitted for transactions that have not been reported in financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
We are currently evaluating the effect of the adoption of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions, or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.


item2.txt
These estimates have a significant impact on our valuation and reserve accounts relating to the allowance for sales returns, doubtful accounts, inventory reserves and deferred income taxes.
Sales returns for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were $2,000 and $111,000, respectively.
The allowance for sales returns and doubtful accounts at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 aggregated $42,000 and $40,000, respectively.
Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.
We had inventory balances in the amount of $4,409,000 and $4,990,000 at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which is presented net of valuation allowances of $7,910,000 and $7,848,000, respectively.
Due to the complexity of managing and maintaining a large inventory of product offerings, estimates are made regarding adjustments to the cost of inventories.
As a result, we expect our components inventory will be more passively marketed and distributed online for clearance through our internet sales portal, however at potentially lower rates due to the pricing pressures normally attributed with online shopping.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we have classified inventory as a current asset in our March 31, 2018, condensed consolidated financial statements representing approximately 50% of current assets and 34% of total assets.
However, if all or a substantial portion of the inventory was required to be immediately liquidated, the inventory would not be as readily marketable or liquid as other items included or classified as a current asset, such as cash.
Gross profit for the first quarter of 2018 was $654,000 versus $873,000 in the comparable period for 2018, and gross margin percentage of net sales was 39.2% in the first quarter of 2018 versus 40.3% in the comparable period for 2017.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


