fls.txt



item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 27, 2019 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 27, 2019.
Our consolidated financial statements include our accounts and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models.
The share of earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
Leases In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 842, Leases, a new standard requiring lessees to recognize operating and finance lease liabilities on the balance sheet, as well as corresponding right-of-use (ROU) assets.
In addition, new disclosures are required to enable users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We adopted ASC 842 on July 28, 2019 which resulted in the recognition of $1.2 billion of operating lease ROU assets included in other assets and $1.2 billion of operating lease liabilities included in other current liabilities and other long-term liabilities.
Our ROU lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments related to the lease.
We use incremental borrowing rates based on information available at the commencement date to determine the present value of our lease payments.
We provide leasing arrangements for our equipment to certain qualified customers.
We allocate the consideration in a bundled contract with our customers based on relative standalone selling prices of our lease and non-lease components.
The residual value on our leased equipment is determined at the inception of the lease based on an analysis of estimates of the value of equipment, market factors and historical customer behavior.
Our leases generally provide an end-of-term option for the customer to extend the lease under mutually-agreed terms, return the leased equipment, or purchase the equipment for either the then-market value of the equipment or a pre-determined purchase price.
Credit Losses of Financial Instruments  In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectibility of the reported amount.


item2.txt
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we delivered solid results with growth in revenue and strong gross margin.
Within total revenue, product revenue was flat and service revenue increased by 3%.
Total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased 2% not including revenue from the SPVSS business in the prior year period.
Total gross margin increased by 2.0 percentage points, driven by productivity improvements and product mix, and to a lesser extent, partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $226 million and EMEA revenue increased by $59 million.
Revenue in our APJC segment decreased by $197 million.
The “BRICM” countries experienced a product revenue decline of 30% in the aggregate, driven by decreased product revenue in the emerging countries of Mexico, India, China, Russia and Brazil of 41%, 37%, 33%, 8% and 7%, respectively.


item3.txt
Available-for-Sale Debt Investments We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The descriptions below include any material changes to and supersede the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously disclosed in “Part I, Item 1A.
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the pending United Kingdom “Brexit” withdrawal from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment.
For example, emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in product orders in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and in certain prior periods.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.
Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty.


