fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial data as of January 27, 2018 and for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017 has been prepared by the Company, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 29, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2017.
The Company consolidates its investments in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of January 27, 2018; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017; the statements of cash flows and equity for the six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017, as applicable, have been made.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full fiscal year or any future periods.
The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
Share-Based Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that impacts the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
This resulted in an overall decrease in the effective tax rate for the six months ended January 27, 2018 due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have a material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cisco is on schedule in establishing new accounting policies, implementing systems and processes (including more extensive use of estimates), and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of the new standard.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, the new standard will require incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized over the contract period.
Cisco will be required to record cumulative effect adjustments to retained earnings (net of tax) upon adopting the new standard at the beginning of fiscal 2019.


item2.txt
In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we saw broad strength across the business and delivered solid revenue growth, strong margins and operating cash flows.
We experienced solid revenue growth in Security and Applications and modest growth in Infrastructure Platforms, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
We continue to operate in a challenging and highly competitive environment, which has negatively impacted certain of our offerings within our Infrastructure Platforms product category.
Within total revenue, product and service revenue each increased by 3%.
Total gross margin increased by 0.3 percentage points, driven by productivity improvements and favorable product mix partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing.
We had a net loss of $8.8 billion and a net loss per share of $1.78, primarily due to the $11.1 billion provisional tax expense related to the Tax Act, comprised of $9.0 billion U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax, and $0.9 billion of net deferred tax assets re-measurement.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $344 million, driven in large part by product revenue growth in the United States.
EMEA revenue decreased by $3 million, led by a product revenue decline in the United Kingdom.


item3.txt
Fixed Income Securities We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
While we believe there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against our Brazilian subsidiary and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any.
SSL alleges that our AnyConnect products that include Virtual Private Networking functions infringed a U.S. patent owned by SSL.
In addition, we are subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property litigation.
The descriptions below include any material changes to and supersede the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously disclosed in “Part I, Item 1A.
Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment.


