fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial data as of April 28, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017 has been prepared by the Company, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 29, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2017.
The Company consolidates its investments in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to SOFTBANK are presented as a separate component from the Company’s equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of April 28, 2018; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the three and nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017; the statements of cash flows and equity for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, as applicable, have been made.
The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
Share-Based Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that impacts the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
This resulted in an overall decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have a material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
Cisco is on schedule in establishing new accounting policies, implementing systems and processes (including more extensive use of estimates), and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of the new standard.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, the new standard will require incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized over the contract period.
Cisco will be required to record cumulative effect adjustments to retained earnings (net of tax) upon adopting the new standard at the beginning of fiscal 2019.


item2.txt
Across networking, security, collaboration and the cloud, our evolving intent-based technologies are constantly learning and adapting to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we saw broad strength across the business and delivered strong revenue growth and solid margins.
Our product revenue reflected growth in Infrastructure Platforms, Applications and Security, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $115 million, EMEA revenue increased by $282 million, and revenue in our APJC segment increased by $126 million.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced solid product revenue growth in the commercial market and to a lesser extent in the enterprise and public sector markets.
Product revenue in the service provider market continued to decline with ongoing uncertainty in that area.
From a product category perspective, the product revenue increase of 5% was driven by a 2% product revenue increase in Infrastructure Platforms and solid product revenue growth in Applications and Security, which grew by 19% and 11%, respectively.
Total revenue increased 2%, with product revenue increasing 1% and service revenue increasing 2%.


item3.txt
Fixed Income Securities We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
While we believe there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against our Brazilian subsidiary and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any.
SSL alleges that our AnyConnect products that include Virtual Private Networking functions infringed a U.S. patent owned by SSL.
(“Straight Path”) asserted patent infringement claims against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, accusing our 9971 IP Phone, Unified Communications Manager working in conjunction with 9971 IP Phones, and Video Communication Server products of infringement.
In addition, we are subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property litigation.
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the recent United Kingdom “Brexit” referendum to withdraw from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.


