item1.txt
We have prepared the accompanying financial data as of January 26, 2019 and for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 28, 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018.
The share of earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of January 26, 2019; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018; the statements of cash flows for the first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018; and the statements of equity for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, as applicable, have been made.
The results of operations for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full fiscal year or any future periods.
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
The underlying principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
It also requires increased disclosures including the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows related to contracts with customers.
ASC 606 primarily impacts our revenue recognition for software arrangements and sales to two-tier distributors.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, ASC 606 requires incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services to which the assets relates.
We enter into contracts with customers that can include various combinations of products and services which are generally distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
We determine whether arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether our commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract.
We refer to our term software licenses, security software licenses, SaaS, and associated service arrangements as subscription offers.


item2.txt
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we delivered revenue growth across all geographies and product areas, solid margins and operating cash flow.
Our product revenue reflected growth in Infrastructure Platforms, Applications and Security, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
Total revenue increased by 5% compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Within total revenue, product revenue increased by 6% and service revenue was flat.
Total revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 7% not including revenue from SPVSS business in the prior year period.
Total gross margin decreased by 0.6 percentage points, driven by unfavorable impacts from pricing and productivity.
As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, collectively, decreased by 1.1 percentage points.
Operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased by 0.1 percentage points.
The net loss and net loss per share in the prior year period were driven by the one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, foreign withholding taxes, and re-measurement of net deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
Available-for-Sale Debt Investments We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment.
For example, emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in product orders in certain prior periods.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.
Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty.


