item1.txt
Risk Factors
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed under Item 1A.


item2.txt
EVERTEC is a leading full-service transaction processing business in Latin America and the Caribbean, providing a broad range of merchant acquiring, payment services and business process management services.
According to the August 2017 Nilson Report, we are one of the largest merchant acquirers in Latin America based on total number of transactions and we believe we are the largest merchant acquirer in the Caribbean and Central America.
We manage a system of electronic payment networks that process more than two billion transactions annually, and offer a comprehensive suite of services for core bank processing, cash processing and technology outsourcing.
We serve a diversified customer base of leading financial institutions, merchants, corporations and government agencies with “mission-critical” technology solutions that enable them to issue, process and accept transactions securely.
•Our ability to capture and analyze data across the transaction processing value chain and use that data to provide value-added services that are differentiated from those offered by pure-play vendors that serve only one portion of the transaction processing value chain (such as only merchant acquiring or payment services).
Our main operating subsidiary, EVERTEC Group, LLC (formerly known as EVERTEC, LLC and EVERTEC, Inc., hereinafter “EVERTEC Group”), was organized in Puerto Rico in 1988.
On April 17, 2012, EVERTEC Group was converted from a Puerto Rico corporation to a Puerto Rico limited liability company (the “Conversion”) for the purpose of improving its consolidated tax efficiency by taking advantage of changes to the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the “PR Code”), that permit limited liability companies to be treated as partnerships that are pass-through entities for Puerto Rico tax purposes.
Prior to the Merger on September 30, 2010, EVERTEC Group was 100% owned by Popular, the largest financial institution in the Caribbean, and operated substantially as an independent entity within Popular.
In connection with, and upon consummation of the Merger, EVERTEC Group entered into a 15-year Master Services Agreement (the “MSA”), and several related agreements with Popular.
The ongoing migration from cash and paper methods of payment to electronic payments continues to benefit the transaction- processing industry globally.
We believe that the penetration of electronic payments in the markets in which we operate is significantly lower relative to the U.S. market, and that this ongoing shift will continue to generate substantial growth opportunities for our business.
For example, currently the adoption of banking products, including electronic payments, in the Latin American and Caribbean region is lower relative to the mature U.S. and European markets.
We believe that the unbanked and underbanked population in our markets will continue to shrink, and therefore drive incremental penetration and growth of electronic payments in Puerto Rico and other Latin American regions.
The Oversight Board has broad budgetary and financial powers over Puerto Rico’s budget, laws, financial plans and regulations, including the power to approve restructuring 
As the solution to the Puerto Rican government’s debt crisis remains unclear, we continue to carefully monitor our receivables with the government as well as monitor general economic trends to understand the impact the crisis has on the economy of Puerto Rico and our card payment volumes.
To date our receivables with the Puerto Rican government and overall payment transaction volumes have not been significantly affected by the debt crisis, however we remain cautious.
Cost of revenues amounted to $47.4 million an increase of $3.2 million or 7% when compared with the prior year period.
Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $15.9 million , relatively flat when compared with the prior year.
Non-operating expenses increased by $1.1 million to $6.5 million when compared with the prior year period.
The increase is mainly related to an increase in interest expense of $0.6 million coupled with a $0.5 million decrease in Other income, net due to a decrease in foreign exchange gains.
Income tax expense amounted to $3.9 million an increase of $1.9 million when compared with the prior year period.
The effective tax rate for the quarter of 13.8% included a discreet tax expense item of approximately $0.5 million that contributed to an increase in the rate.
The Payment Services - Latin America segment revenues consist of revenues related to providing access to the ATH debit network and other card networks to financial institutions, including related services such as authorization, processing, management and recording of ATM and POS transactions, and ATM management and monitoring.
The segment revenues also include revenues from card processing services (such as credit and debit card processing, authorization and settlement and fraud monitoring and control to debit or credit issuers), payment processing services (such as payment and billing products for merchants, businesses and financial institutions), as well as, licensed software solutions for risk and fraud management and card payment processing.
For ATH debit network and processing services, revenues are primarily driven by the number of transactions processed.
Revenues are derived primarily from network fees, transaction switching and processing fees, and the leasing POS devices.
For card issuer processing, revenues are primarily dependent upon the number of cardholder accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, the number of cards embossed and other processing services.
The Merchant Acquiring segment consists of revenues from services that allow merchants to accept electronic methods of payment.
In the Merchant Acquiring segment, revenues include a discount fee and membership fees charged to merchants, debit network fees and rental fees from POS devices and other equipment, net of credit card interchange and assessment fees charged by credit cards associations (such as VISA or MasterCard) or payment networks.
EVERTEC also charges merchants for other services that are unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value.
The Business Solutions segment consists of revenues from a full suite of business process management solutions in various product areas such as core bank processing, network hosting and management, IT professional services, business process outsourcing, item processing, cash processing, and fulfillment.
Core bank processing and network services revenues are derived in part from a recurrent fee and from fees based on the number of accounts on file (i.e. savings or checking accounts, loans, etc.) or computer resources utilized.
Revenues from other processing services within the Business Solutions segment are generally volume-based and depend on factors such as the number of accounts processed.
Management evaluates the operating results of each of its operating segments based upon revenues and Adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to operating segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, "Segment Reporting" given that it is reported to the CODM for purposes of allocating resources.
The following tables set forth information about the Company’s operations by its four business segments for the periods indicated below.
Payment services - Latin America revenue increased $7.4 million to $20.4 million driven by added revenues in connection with PayGroup acquisition coupled with increased revenues from transaction processing.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $1.5 million when compared to the prior year period reflecting the increased revenue from the PayGroup acquisition at a lower margin.
At March 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $53.5 million, of which $32.5 million resides in our subsidiaries located outside of Puerto Rico for purposes of (i) funding the respective subsidiary’s current business operations and 
Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $30.4 million compared with cash provided by operating activities of $25.3 million for the corresponding 2017 period.
The $5.1 million increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily driven by less cash used to pay down accounts payable and accrued liabilities, less cash used to prepay maintenance contracts and less cash used to pay income taxes, these positive variances were partially offset by less cash received from accounts receivable.
In May 2016, EVERTEC Group entered into a non-interest bearing financing agreement amounting to $0.7 million and in October 2016 entered into an interest bearing agreement of $1.1 million, to purchase software.
The Company has accounted for this transaction as a cash flow hedge.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company reclassified losses of $0.2 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense.
Based on current LIBOR rates, the Company expects to reclassify $0.2 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense over the next 12 months.
Adjusted EBITDA by segment is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance.
For this reason Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification 280, Segment Reporting, and is excluded from the definition of non-GAAP financial measures under the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation G and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K.
•other companies, including other companies in our industry, may not use EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income, and Adjusted Earnings per common share or may calculate EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share differently than as presented in this Report, limiting their usefulness as a comparative measure.
EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share are not measurements of liquidity or financial performance under GAAP.
You should not consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share as alternatives to cash flows from operating activities or any other performance 
measures determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of cash flows, as a measure of liquidity or as an alternative to operating or net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
2)Primarily represents share-based compensation and other compensation expense of $3.6 million and $2.0 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and severance payments $0.2 million and $0.1 million for the same periods, respectively.
5)Represents operating depreciation and amortization expense, which excludes amounts generated as a result of the Merger and other from purchase accounting intangibles generated from acquisitions.


item3.txt
Our senior secured credit facilities accrue interest at variable rates and only the Term B Loan is subject to floors or minimum rates.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates over our floor(s) on our debt balances outstanding as of March 31, 2018, after considering our interest rate swap, under the senior secured credit facilities would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $4.1 million.
Under this agreement, commencing on January 1, 2017, we began to receive a rate equal to the LIBOR applicable to our Term B loan, and pay a fixed rate equal to 1.9225%.
The net effect of the swap agreement is to fix the interest rate on $200 million of our Term B loan at 4.4225%, beginning January 1, 2017 and ending when the Term B Loan matures, in April 2020.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
Exhibits
+ This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


