item1.txt
Risk Factors
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed under Item 1A.


item2.txt
EVERTEC is a leading full-service transaction processing business in Latin America and the Caribbean, providing a broad range of merchant acquiring, payment services and business process management services.
We manage a system of electronic payment networks that process more than two billion transactions annually, and offer a comprehensive suite of services for core bank processing and cash processing in Puerto Rico and technology outsourcing in all the regions we serve.
We serve a diversified customer base of leading financial institutions, merchants, corporations and government agencies with “mission-critical” technology solutions that enable them to issue, process and accept transactions securely.
services, which enable financial institutions and other issuers to manage, support and facilitate the processing for credit, debit, prepaid, automated teller machines (“ATM”) and EBT card programs; and (iii) business process management solutions, which provide “mission-critical” technology solutions such as core bank processing, as well as IT outsourcing and cash management services to financial institutions, corporations and governments.
Our main operating subsidiary, EVERTEC Group, LLC (formerly known as EVERTEC, LLC and EVERTEC, Inc., hereinafter “EVERTEC Group”), was organized in Puerto Rico in 1988.
On April 17, 2012, EVERTEC Group was converted from a Puerto Rico corporation to a Puerto Rico limited liability company (the “Conversion”) for the purpose of improving its consolidated tax efficiency by taking advantage of changes to the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the “PR Code”), that permit limited liability companies to be treated as partnerships that are pass-through entities for Puerto Rico tax purposes.
Prior to the Merger on September 30, 2010, EVERTEC Group was 100% owned by Popular, the largest financial institution in the Caribbean, and operated substantially as an independent entity within Popular.
In connection with, and upon consummation of the Merger, EVERTEC Group entered into a 15-year Master Services Agreement (the “MSA”), and several related agreements with Popular.
We believe that the penetration of electronic payments in the markets in which we operate is significantly lower relative to the U.S. market, and that this ongoing shift will continue to generate substantial growth opportunities for our business.
We believe that the unbanked and underbanked population in our markets will continue to shrink, and therefore drive incremental penetration and growth of electronic payments in Puerto Rico and other Latin American regions.
The Oversight Board has broad budgetary and financial powers over Puerto Rico’s budget, laws, financial plans and regulations, including the power to approve restructuring agreements with creditors, file petitions for restructuring and reform the electronic system for the tax collection.
In addition, PROMESA imposes an automatic stay on all litigation against Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities, as well as any other judicial or administrative actions or proceedings to enforce or collect claims against the Puerto Rico government.
As the solution to the Puerto Rican government’s debt crisis remains unclear, we continue to carefully monitor our receivables with the government as well as monitor general economic trends to understand the impact the crisis has on the economy of Puerto Rico and our card payment volumes.
Total revenues in the second quarter of 2019 increased by $9.2 million or 8% to $122.5 million when compared with the prior year period.
Revenue increase in the quarter was primarily driven by increased volumes from ATH debit network and benefits from value added solutions coupled with other pricing actions.
In addition, there was an increase in core banking transactions and an increase in network services related to new managed services projects.
The quarter also benefited from revenue of approximately $2.5 million from completed special projects and hardware sales.
Cost of revenues amounted to $52.6 million, an increase of $3.5 million or 7% when compared with the prior year period.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the second quarter of 2019 decreased by $2.8 million or 16% when compared with the same quarter in 2018.
The decrease is primarily related to lower professional fees as the prior year included fees in connection with due diligence for a potential transaction that the Company decided not to pursue.
Non-operating expenses increased by $0.7 million to $8.1 million when compared with the prior year period.
The increase is mainly related to a $1.0 million decrease in Other income, net due to higher foreign exchange losses relative to the same quarter in 2018.
Income tax expense amounted to $2.5 million, a decrease of $0.6 million when compared with the prior year quarterly period.
The decrease in effective tax rate is primarily related to the tax benefit generated in connection with stock based compensation of $1.0 million coupled with a shift in taxable income composition in Puerto Rico.
Total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2019 amounted to $241.4 million, an increase of $17.8 million or 8%.
Revenue increase in the first half of 2019 reflected growth from elevated sales volumes in Puerto Rico, higher core banking transactions and an increase in fees generated by network services related to new managed services projects.
Additionally, revenue growth was impacted by one-time revenue related to an electronic benefits contract of approximately $2.7 million and revenue from hardware sales and the completion of several projects of approximately $2.5 million.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $1.1 million or 3% to $30.2 million when compared with the same period in 2018.
Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $33.5 million, an increase of $1.9 million when compared with the prior year.
Non-operating expenses increased by $1.0 million to $14.9 million when compared with the prior year period.
The increase is almost entirely related to a decrease in Other income, net of $1.6 million due to an increase in foreign exchange losses.
Income tax expense amounted to $6.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, an increase of $0.7 million when compared with the prior year period and an effective tax rate of 10.5% compared with 14.0% in the prior year.
The decrease in the effective tax rate is driven by the impact of the tax benefit generated from stock based compensation of $1.0 million and the shift in taxable income in Puerto Rico.
The Merchant Acquiring segment consists of revenues from services that allow merchants to accept electronic methods of payment.
In the Merchant Acquiring segment, revenues include a discount fee and membership fees charged to merchants, debit network fees and rental fees from POS devices and other equipment, net of credit card interchange and assessment fees charged by credit cards associations (such as VISA or MasterCard) or payment networks.
The Business Solutions segment consists of revenues from a full suite of business process management solutions in various product areas such as core bank processing, network hosting and management, IT professional services, business process outsourcing, item processing, cash processing, and fulfillment.
Core bank processing and network services revenues are derived in part from a recurrent fee and from fees based on the number of accounts on file (i.e. savings or checking accounts, loans, etc.) or computer resources utilized.
Revenues from other processing services within the Business Solutions segment are generally volume-based and depend on factors such as the number of accounts processed.
In addition to the four operating segments described above, Management identified certain functional cost areas that operate independently and do not constitute businesses in themselves.
Management evaluates the operating results of each of its operating segments based upon revenues and Adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to operating segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, "Segment Reporting" given that it is reported to the CODM for purposes of allocating resources.
Business Solutions segment revenue increased $6.0 million to $55.2 million.
The increase was mainly related to higher hardware and software sales coupled with revenue from new services provided to Popular and the Government of Puerto Rico.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $1.1 million to $24.3 million when compared with the prior year as a result of the higher revenues, partially offset by higher cost of sales and operating expenses.
Merchant acquiring revenues increased $3.4 million to $52.8 million when compared with the prior year period, driven by the same reasons above explained for the quarter coupled with electronic benefit disaster relief recovery funding that ended in March 2019.
Increases in transactional fees contributed to higher net spreads versus the same period in the previous year, while higher non-transactional fees also helped to drive the year-over-year revenue increase.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $0.7 million reflecting the increased revenues, partially offset by higher transaction processing charges and a lower average ticket.
At June 30, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $64.0 million, of which $50.1 million resides in our subsidiaries located outside of Puerto Rico for purposes of (i) funding the respective subsidiary’s current business operations and (ii) funding potential future investment outside of Puerto Rico.
We intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of Puerto Rico, and based on our liquidity forecast, we will not need to repatriate this cash to fund the Puerto Rico operations or to meet debt-service obligations.
However, if in the future we determine that we no longer need to maintain cash balances within our foreign subsidiaries, we may elect to distribute such cash to the Company in Puerto Rico.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $76.0 million compared with cash provided by operating activities of $76.9 million for the corresponding 2018 period.
The $0.9 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities is primarily driven by more cash used to pay down accounts payable, accrued liabilities, and income taxes, partially offset by higher net income.
On February 15, 2019 and April 25, 2019, the Board declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share on the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock, which was paid on March 22, 2019 and June 7, 2019, respectively, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 26, 2019 and May 6, 2019, respectively.
In May 2016, EVERTEC Group entered into a non-interest bearing financing agreement amounting to $0.7 million to purchase software.
In January 2019, EVERTEC Group entered into a non-interest bearing financing agreement amounting to $10.0 million to purchase data processing equipment and maintenance.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company reclassified gains of $0.5 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense.
Based on current LIBOR rates, the Company expects to reclassify gains of $0.2 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense over the next 12 months.
For this reason Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification 280, Segment Reporting, and is excluded from the definition of non-GAAP financial measures under the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation G and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K.
•other companies, including other companies in our industry, may not use EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income, and Adjusted Earnings per common share or may calculate EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share differently than as presented in this Report, limiting their usefulness as a comparative measure.
You should not consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share as alternatives to cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of cash flows, as a measure of liquidity or as an alternative to operating or net income determined in accordance with GAAP.


item3.txt
Our secured credit facilities accrue interest at variable rates and only the 2024 Term B is subject to a floor or a minimum rate.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates over our floor(s) on our debt balances outstanding as of June 30, 2019, under the secured credit facilities, would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $3.4 million.
In December 2015 and December 2018, we entered into interest rate swap agreements which convert a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt to fixed.
See Note 5 of the Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for additional information related to the senior secured credit facilities.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
Exhibits
+ This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


