item1.txt
Risk Factors
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed under Item 1A.


item2.txt
EVERTEC is a leading full-service transaction processing business in Latin America and the Caribbean, providing a broad range of merchant acquiring, payment services and business process management services.
We manage a system of electronic payment networks that process more than two billion transactions annually, and offer a comprehensive suite of services for core bank processing, cash processing and technology outsourcing.
We serve a diversified customer base of leading financial institutions, merchants, corporations and government agencies with “mission-critical” technology solutions that enable them to issue, process and accept transactions securely.
•Our ability to capture and analyze data across the transaction processing value chain and use that data to provide value-added services that are differentiated from those offered by pure-play vendors that serve only one portion of the transaction processing value chain (such as only merchant acquiring or payment services).
Our main operating subsidiary, EVERTEC Group, LLC (formerly known as EVERTEC, LLC and EVERTEC, Inc., hereinafter “EVERTEC Group”), was organized in Puerto Rico in 1988.
On April 17, 2012, EVERTEC Group was converted from a Puerto Rico corporation to a Puerto Rico limited liability company (the “Conversion”) for the purpose of improving its consolidated tax efficiency by taking advantage of changes to the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the “PR Code”), that permit limited liability companies to be treated as partnerships that are pass-through entities for Puerto Rico tax purposes.
Prior to the Merger on September 30, 2010, EVERTEC Group was 100% owned by Popular, the largest financial institution in the Caribbean, and operated substantially as an independent entity within Popular.
We believe that the penetration of electronic payments in the markets in which we operate is significantly lower relative to the U.S. market, and that this ongoing shift will continue to generate substantial growth opportunities for our business.
We believe that the unbanked and underbanked population in our markets will continue to shrink, and therefore drive incremental penetration and growth of electronic payments in Puerto Rico and other Latin American regions.
powers over Puerto Rico’s budget, laws, financial plans and regulations, including the power to approve restructuring agreements with creditors, file petitions for restructuring and reform the electronic system for the tax collection.
As the solution to the Puerto Rican government’s debt crisis remains unclear, we continue to carefully monitor our receivables with the government as well as monitor general economic trends to understand the impact the crisis has on the economy of Puerto Rico and our card payment volumes.
Total revenues in the third quarter of 2018 increased by $9.3 million or 9% to $112.0 million.
Revenue growth in the quarter reflected elevated sales volumes in Puerto Rico driven by post-hurricane recovery activity, federal relief and benefit programs and insurance proceeds.
The decrease is primarily related to a decrease in salaries expense partially offset by an increase in other operating expenses.
Non-operating expenses decreased by $1.5 million to $6.0 million when compared with the prior year period.
The decrease is mainly related to a $0.9 million increase in Other income, net due to an increase in foreign exchange gains coupled with a decrease in interest expense of $0.5 million.
Total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 amounted to $335.6 million, an increase of $28.1 million or 9%.
The increase in revenues was primarily driven by the same reasons explained above for the quarter coupled with added revenues from the acquisition of PayGroup completed in the third quarter of the prior year.
Cost of revenues amounted to $146.0 million, a decrease of $3.9 million or 3% when compared with the prior year period.
The decrease is primarily related to the aforementioned exit activity in the prior year, partially offset by an increase in salaries and benefits in connection with the PayGroup acquisition as well as increased software maintenance expense.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $5.7 million or 14% to $45.7 million when compared with the same period in 2017.
The increase is mainly driven by an increase in share based compensation expense, added salaries from the PayGroup acquisition and an increase in professional fees.
Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $47.4 million, a decrease of $0.8 million when compared with the same period in 2017.
Non-operating expenses increased by $1.2 million to $19.9 million when compared with the prior year period.
The increase is mainly related to an increase in interest expense of $0.4 million coupled with a $1.0 million decrease in Other income, net mostly due to a decrease in foreign exchange gains.
The Payment Services - Latin America segment revenues consist of revenues related to providing access to the ATH network and other card networks to financial institutions, including related services such as authorization, processing, management and recording of ATM and POS transactions, and ATM management and monitoring.
The segment revenues also include revenues from card processing services (such as credit and debit card processing, authorization and settlement and fraud monitoring and control to debit or credit issuers), payment processing services (such as payment and billing products for merchants, businesses and financial institutions), as well as, licensed software solutions for risk and fraud management and card payment processing.
For ATH debit network and processing services, revenues are primarily driven by the number of transactions processed.
For card issuer processing, revenues are primarily dependent upon the number of cardholder accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, the number of cards embossed and other processing services.
The Merchant Acquiring segment consists of revenues from services that allow merchants to accept electronic methods of payment.
In the Merchant Acquiring segment, revenues include a discount fee and membership fees charged to merchants, debit network fees and rental fees from POS devices and other equipment, net of credit card interchange and assessment fees charged by credit cards associations (such as VISA or MasterCard) or payment networks.
The Business Solutions segment consists of revenues from a full suite of business process management solutions in various product areas such as core bank processing, network hosting and management, IT professional services, business process outsourcing, item processing, cash processing, and fulfillment.
Core bank processing and network services revenues are derived in part from a recurrent fee and from fees based on the number of accounts on file (i.e. savings or checking accounts, loans, etc.) or computer resources utilized.
Revenues from other processing services within the Business Solutions segment are generally volume-based and depend on factors such as the number of accounts processed.
Management evaluates the operating results of each of its operating segments based upon revenues and Adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to operating segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, "Segment Reporting" given that it is reported to the CODM for purposes of allocating resources.
Segment asset disclosure is not used by the CODM as a measure of segment performance since the segment evaluation is driven by revenues and adjusted EBITDA performance.
Merchant acquiring revenues increased $2.9 million to $24.5 million due to increased volumes.
The primary growth drivers continue to be post hurricane recovery federal relief programs that drove a significant increase in electronic benefit card volume, increased government tax payments and gas purchases reflecting increases in the price of gas year over year.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $1.5 million mainly due to increased sales volumes for ATH branded cards and the improved margin contribution from an increase in average ticket.
Business solutions revenue increased $2.6 million or 6% driven by new services to Popular and the government of Puerto Rico, as well as growth over the prior year which was negatively impacted by the hurricanes, partially offset by lower IT Consulting revenues.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $2.3 million to $21.7 million when compared with the prior year almost entirely driven by the increase in revenues.
Payment services - Latin America revenue increased $15.2 million to $58.5 million driven by added revenues in connection with PayGroup acquisition coupled with increased revenues from transaction processing.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $5.1 million when compared to the prior year period as a result of added revenues at a lower margin from the PayGroup acquisition.
Merchant acquiring revenues increased $6.3 million to $73.8 million and Adjusted EBITDA increased $4.7 million to $34.4 million driven by the same reasons explained previously for the quarter.
Business solutions revenue increased $3.0 million to $146.0 million when compared with the prior year driven by an increase in revenues from Popular for new services coupled with growth over the negative impact of the hurricanes in the prior year, partially offset by lower IT consulting revenue, while Adjusted EBITDA increased $2.7 million mainly due to the increase in revenues.
At September 30, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $91.3 million, of which $40.3 million resides in our subsidiaries located outside of Puerto Rico for purposes of (i) funding the respective subsidiary’s current business operations and (ii) funding potential future investment outside of Puerto Rico.
We intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of Puerto Rico, and based on our liquidity forecast, we will not need to repatriate this cash to fund the Puerto Rico operations or to meet debt-service obligations.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company reclassified losses of $0.1 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense.
Based on current LIBOR rates, the Company expects to reclassify gains of $0.5 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense over the next 12 months.
For this reason Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification 280, Segment Reporting, and is excluded from the definition of non-GAAP financial measures under the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation G and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K.
•other companies, including other companies in our industry, may not use EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income, and Adjusted Earnings per common share or may calculate EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share differently than as presented in this Report, limiting their usefulness as a comparative measure.
You should not consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share as alternatives to cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of cash flows, as a measure of liquidity or as an alternative to operating or net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
2)Primarily represents share-based compensation and other compensation expense of $2.4 million for both of the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Primarily represents share-based compensation and other compensation expense of $9.7 million and $6.6 million for the nine months ended ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 and severance payments $1.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.


item3.txt
Our senior secured credit facilities accrue interest at variable rates and only the Term B Loan is subject to floors or minimum rates.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates over our floor(s) on our debt balances outstanding as of September 30, 2018, after considering our interest rate swap, under the senior secured credit facilities would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $3.7 million.
Under this agreement, commencing on January 1, 2017, we began to receive a rate equal to the LIBOR applicable to our Term B loan, and pay a fixed rate equal to 1.9225%.
The net effect of the swap agreement is to fix the interest rate on $200 million of our Term B loan at 4.4225%, beginning January 1, 2017 and ending when the Term B Loan matures, in April 2020.


item4.txt
Exhibits
+ This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


