item1.txt
Risk Factors
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed under Item 1A.


item2.txt
EVERTEC is a leading full-service transaction processing business in Latin America and the Caribbean, providing a broad range of merchant acquiring, payment services and business process management services.
We manage a system of electronic payment networks that process more than two billion transactions annually, and offer a comprehensive suite of services for core bank processing and cash processing in Puerto Rico and technology outsourcing in all the regions we serve.
We serve a diversified customer base of leading financial institutions, merchants, corporations and government agencies with “mission-critical” technology solutions that enable them to issue, process and accept transactions securely.
•Our ability to capture and analyze data across the transaction processing value chain and use that data to provide value-added services that are differentiated from those offered by pure-play vendors that serve only one portion of the transaction processing value chain (such as only merchant acquiring or payment services).
services, which enable financial institutions and other issuers to manage, support and facilitate the processing of credit, debit, prepaid, automated teller machines (“ATM”) and EBT card programs; and (iii) business process management solutions, which provide “mission-critical” technology solutions such as core bank processing, as well as IT outsourcing and cash management services to financial institutions, corporations and governments.
We benefit from an attractive business model, the hallmarks of which are recurring revenue, scalability, significant operating margins and moderate capital expenditure requirements.
Our main operating subsidiary, EVERTEC Group, LLC (formerly known as EVERTEC, LLC and EVERTEC, Inc., hereinafter “EVERTEC Group”), was organized in Puerto Rico in 1988.
On April 17, 2012, EVERTEC Group was converted from a Puerto Rico corporation to a Puerto Rico limited liability company (the “Conversion”) for the purpose of improving its consolidated tax efficiency by taking advantage of changes to the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the “PR Code”), that permit limited liability companies to be treated as partnerships that are pass-through entities for Puerto Rico tax purposes.
Prior to the Merger on September 30, 2010, EVERTEC Group was 100% owned by Popular, the largest financial institution in the Caribbean, and operated substantially as an independent entity within Popular.
In connection with, and upon consummation of the Merger, EVERTEC Group entered into a 15-year Master Services Agreement (the “MSA”), and several related agreements with Popular.
We believe that the penetration of electronic payments in the markets in which we operate is significantly lower relative to the U.S. market, and that this ongoing shift will continue to generate substantial growth opportunities for our business.
We believe that the unbanked and underbanked population in our markets will continue to shrink, and therefore drive incremental penetration and growth of electronic payments in Puerto Rico and other Latin American regions.
The Oversight Board has broad budgetary and financial powers over Puerto Rico’s budget, laws, financial plans and regulations, including the power to approve restructuring agreements with creditors, file petitions for restructuring and reform the electronic system for the tax collection.
In addition, PROMESA imposes an automatic stay on all litigation against Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities, as well as any other judicial or administrative actions or proceedings to enforce or collect claims against the Puerto Rico government.
Promptly after the expiration of the stay, creditors of the Puerto Rico government filed various lawsuits involving defaults on more than $70 billion of bonds issued by Puerto Rico, having failed to reach a negotiated settlement on such defaults with the Puerto Rico government during the period of the automatic stay.
As the solution to the Puerto Rican government’s debt crisis remains unclear, we continue to carefully monitor our receivables with the government as well as monitor general economic trends to understand the impact the crisis has on the economy of Puerto Rico and our card payment volumes.
Total revenues in the third quarter of 2019 increased by $6.8 million or 6% to $118.8 million when compared with the prior year period.
Revenue increase in the quarter reflected growth across all segments and included benefits from value added solutions, new managed services and other pricing actions.
Additionally, increased revenue was driven by the completion of projects for approximately $2.0 million.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the third quarter of 2019 increased by $0.7 million or 5% when compared with the same quarter in 2018.
The increase is primarily related to an increase in salaries and compensation as the prior year includes a significant reversal in share-based compensation expense in connection with a former executive's forfeiture for unvested RSUs, partially offset by lower professional fees and other operating expenses.
Non-operating expenses increased by $0.3 million to $6.3 million when compared with the prior year period.
The increase is mainly related to a $0.9 million decrease in Other income (expenses) due to higher foreign exchange losses relative to the same quarter in 2018.
Income tax expense amounted to $3.7 million, an increase of $0.4 million when compared with the prior year quarterly period.
This increase was partially offset by a decrease in Puerto Rico taxes due to a shift in fully taxable operations to partially taxable operations and a tax benefit recorded during the period related to a decrease in effective tax rate for certain activities.
Total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 amounted to $360.2 million, an increase of $24.6 million or 7%.
Revenue benefited from the impact of a higher net spread driven by pricing actions, elevated sales volumes in Puerto Rico, higher core banking transactions and an increase in fees generated by network services related to new managed services projects.
Additionally, revenue growth was impacted by one-time revenue related to an electronic benefits contract of approximately $2.7 million and revenue from hardware sales and the completion of several projects of approximately $4.5 million.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $0.3 million or 1% to $45.4 million when compared with the same period in 2018.
The decrease is mainly driven by lower professional services as the prior year included fees in connection with due diligence for a potential transaction that the Company decided not to pursue, almost entirely offset by an increase in salaries and compensation.
Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $50.4 million, an increase of $3.1 million when compared with the prior year.
Non-operating expenses increased by $1.3 million to $21.2 million when compared with the prior year period.
The increase is driven by a decrease in Other income (expenses) of $2.5 million due to an increase in foreign exchange losses, partially offset by a decrease in interest expense as a result of improved rates from the debt refinancing completed in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
Income tax expense amounted to $10.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, a decrease of $0.3 million when compared with the prior year period.
The decrease in the effective tax rate is a result of a decrease in Puerto Rico taxes for the same reasons explained above for the quarter coupled with a discrete item in LATAM, partially offset by an increase in foreign taxes for intercompany transactions.
The Merchant Acquiring segment consists of revenues from services that allow merchants to accept electronic methods of payment.
In the Merchant Acquiring segment, revenues include a discount fee and membership fees charged to merchants, debit network fees and rental fees from POS devices and other equipment, net of credit card interchange and assessment fees charged by credit cards associations (such as VISA or MasterCard) or payment networks.
The Business Solutions segment consists of revenues from a full suite of business process management solutions in various product areas such as core bank processing, network managed services, IT professional services, business process outsourcing, item processing, cash processing, and fulfillment.
Core bank processing and network services revenues are derived in part from a recurrent fixed fee and from fees based on the number of accounts on file (i.e. savings or checking accounts, loans, etc.) or computer resources utilized.
Revenues from other processing services within the Business Solutions segment are generally 
Management evaluates the operating results of each of its operating segments based upon revenues and Adjusted Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted EBITDA").
Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to operating segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, "Segment Reporting" given that it is reported to the CODM for purposes of allocating resources.
Business Solutions segment revenue increased $4.1 million to $52.9 million.
Revenue growth in the segment was driven by new services for both Popular and the Government of Puerto Rico and other projects completed in the quarter representing revenue of $2.0 million.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $3.3 million to $25.1 million when compared with the prior year as a result of the higher revenues partially offset by an increase in operating expenses.
Merchant acquiring revenues increased $5.4 million to $79.2 million when compared with the prior year period, driven by the same reasons above explained for the quarter coupled with electronic benefit disaster relief recovery funding that ended in March 2019.
Increases in transactional fees contributed to higher net spreads versus the same period in the previous year.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $1.0 million reflecting the increased revenues, partially offset by higher transaction processing charges and a lower average ticket.
At September 30, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $102.5 million, of which $55.9 million resides in our subsidiaries located outside of Puerto Rico for purposes of (i) funding the respective subsidiary’s current business operations and (ii) funding potential future investment outside of Puerto Rico.
We intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of Puerto Rico, and based on our liquidity forecast, we will not need to repatriate this cash to fund the Puerto Rico operations or to meet debt-service obligations.
However, if in the future we determine that we no longer need to maintain cash balances within our foreign subsidiaries, we may elect to distribute such cash to the Company in Puerto Rico.
On February 15, 2019 , April 25, 2019 and July 25, 2019, the Board declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share on the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock, which was paid on March 22, 2019, June 7, 2019 and September 6, 2019, respectively, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 26, 2019, May 6, 2019 and August 5, 2019, respectively.
The additional borrowing capacity for the Revolving Facility at September 30, 2019 was $116.9 million.
In May 2016, EVERTEC Group entered into a non-interest bearing financing agreement amounting to $0.7 million to purchase software.
In January 2019, EVERTEC Group entered into a non-interest bearing financing agreement amounting to $10.0 million to purchase data processing equipment and maintenance.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company reclassified gains of $0.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense.
Based on current LIBOR rates, the Company expects to reclassify gains of $1.1 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense over the next 12 months.
For this reason Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification 280, Segment Reporting, and is excluded from the definition of non-GAAP financial measures under the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation G and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K.
•other companies, including other companies in our industry, may not use EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income, and Adjusted Earnings per common share or may calculate EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share differently than as presented in this Report, limiting their usefulness as a comparative measure.
You should not consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share as alternatives to cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of cash flows, as a measure of liquidity or as an alternative to operating or net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
With the exception of the letters of credit issued against the Revolving Facility which reduce the additional borrowing capacity of the Revolving Facility, as of September 30, 2019, the Company did not have any off balance sheet items.


item3.txt
Our secured credit facilities accrue interest at variable rates and only the 2024 Term B is subject to a floor or a minimum rate.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates over our floor(s) on our debt balances outstanding as of September 30, 2019, under the secured credit facilities, would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $3.3 million.
In December 2015 and December 2018, we entered into interest rate swap agreements which convert a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt to fixed.
See Note 5 of the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the senior secured credit facilities.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
Exhibits
+ This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


