item1.txt
Risk Factors
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed under Item 1A.


item2.txt
EVERTEC is a leading full-service transaction processing business in Latin America and the Caribbean, providing a broad range of merchant acquiring, payment services and business process management services.
We manage a system of electronic payment networks that process more than two billion transactions annually, and offer a comprehensive suite of services for core bank processing, cash processing and technology outsourcing.
We serve a diversified customer base of leading financial institutions, merchants, corporations and government agencies with “mission-critical” technology solutions that enable them to issue, process and accept transactions securely.
Our main operating subsidiary, EVERTEC Group, LLC (formerly known as EVERTEC, LLC and EVERTEC, Inc., hereinafter “EVERTEC Group”), was organized in Puerto Rico in 1988.
On April 17, 2012, EVERTEC Group was converted from a Puerto Rico corporation to a Puerto Rico limited liability company (the “Conversion”) for the purpose of improving its consolidated tax efficiency by taking advantage of changes to the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the “PR Code”), that permit limited liability companies to be treated as partnerships that are pass-through entities for Puerto Rico tax purposes.
Prior to the Merger on September 30, 2010, EVERTEC Group was 100% owned by Popular, the largest financial institution in the Caribbean, and operated substantially as an independent entity within Popular.
We believe that the penetration of electronic payments in the markets in which we operate is significantly lower relative to the U.S. market, and that this ongoing shift will continue to generate substantial growth opportunities for our business.
powers over Puerto Rico’s budget, laws, financial plans and regulations, including the power to approve restructuring agreements with creditors, file petitions for restructuring and reform the electronic system for the tax collection.
Total revenues in the second quarter of 2018 increased by $9.8 million or 10% to $113.3 million.
Revenue growth in the quarter reflected the impact of the acquisition of PayGroup as well as elevated sales volumes in Puerto Rico driven by post-hurricane recovery activity, federal relief and benefit programs and insurance proceeds.
Cost of revenues amounted to $49.1 million, an increase of $6.1 million or 14% when compared with the prior year period.
The increase is primarily driven by an increase in salaries and benefits in connection with the PayGroup acquisition coupled with an increase in equipment maintenance expense.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the second quarter of 2018 increased by $3.3 million or 22% to $17.8 million when compared with the second quarter of 2017.
The increase is primarily related to an increase in share based compensation expenses coupled with an increase in salaries and benefits as a result of the PayGroup acquisition and an increase in professional fees in connection with due diligence for a potential transaction which the Company decided not to pursue.
Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $15.7 million, relatively flat when compared with the prior year period.
Non-operating expenses increased by $1.7 million to $7.4 million when compared with the prior year period.
The increase is mainly related to a $1.4 million decrease in Other (expense) income due to a decrease in foreign exchange gains coupled with an increase in interest expense of $0.3 million.
Income tax expense amounted to $3.1 million a decrease of $1.0 million when compared with the prior year period.
The decrease is primarily related to prior year income tax expense recognized in connection with a one-time dividend declared to repatriate foreign earnings in order to fund the acquisition of PayGroup.
Total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018 amounted to $223.6 million, an increase of $18.8 million or 9%.
The increase in revenues was primarily driven by added revenues from the acquisition of PayGroup as well as strong sales volumes in Puerto Rico related to post-hurricanes recovery.
Cost of revenues amounted to $96.6 million, an increase of $9.3 million or 11% when compared with the prior year period.
The increase is primarily driven by an increase in salaries and benefits in connection with the PayGroup acquisition and higher equipment maintenance expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $5.9 million or 23% to $31.3 million when compared with the same period in 2017.
The increase is mainly driven by an increase in share based compensation expense coupled with expenses related to the PayGroup acquisition and an increase in professional fees for the same reason explained above for the quarter.
Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $31.6 million, flat when compared with the prior year.
Non-operating expenses increased by $2.8 million to $13.9 million when compared with the prior year period.
The increase is mainly related to an increase in interest expense of $0.9 million coupled with a $1.9 million decrease in Other income, net due to a decrease in foreign exchange gains.
The Merchant Acquiring segment consists of revenues from services that allow merchants to accept electronic methods of payment.
In the Merchant Acquiring segment, revenues include a discount fee and membership fees charged to merchants, debit network fees and rental fees from POS devices and other equipment, net of credit card interchange and assessment fees charged by credit cards associations (such as VISA or MasterCard) or payment networks.
The Business Solutions segment consists of revenues from a full suite of business process management solutions in various product areas such as core bank processing, network hosting and management, IT professional services, business process outsourcing, item processing, cash processing, and fulfillment.
Core bank processing and network services revenues are derived in part from a recurrent fee and from fees based on the number of accounts on file (i.e. savings or checking accounts, loans, etc.) or computer resources utilized.
Revenues from other processing services within the Business Solutions segment are generally volume-based and depend on factors such as the number of accounts processed.
Management evaluates the operating results of each of its operating segments based upon revenues and Adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to operating segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, "Segment Reporting" given that it is reported to the CODM for purposes of allocating resources.
Payment services - Latin America revenue increased $6.3 million to $19.2 million driven by added revenues in connection with the PayGroup acquisition.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $0.7 million when compared to the prior year period reflecting the increased revenue from the PayGroup acquisition at a lower margin.
Business solutions revenue increased $0.6 million driven by an increase in revenues from Popular, partially offset by lower printing revenue.
Adjusted EBITDA decreased $0.3 million to $23.2 million when compared with the prior year as a result of increased expenses for the segment.
Payment services - Latin America revenue increased $13.7 million to $39.6 million driven by added revenues in connection with PayGroup acquisition coupled with increased revenues from transaction processing.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $2.2 million when compared to the prior year period as a result of the same reason explained above for the June ending quarter.
Merchant acquiring revenues increased $3.4 million to $49.3 million driven by the same reasons above explained for the quarter coupled with an increase in non-transactional fees.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $3.2 million for the same reasons as the June ending quarter.
Business solutions revenue increased $0.5 million to $97.2 million when compared with the prior year for the same reasons as in the June ending quarter, while Adjusted EBITDA increased $0.4 million mainly related to the increase in revenues.
At June 30, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $59.3 million, of which $37.5 million resides in our subsidiaries located outside of Puerto Rico for purposes of (i) funding the respective subsidiary’s current business operations and (ii) funding potential future investment outside of Puerto Rico.
We intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of Puerto Rico, and based on our liquidity forecast, we will not need to repatriate this cash to fund the Puerto Rico operations or to meet debt-service obligations.
However, if in the future we determine that we no longer need to maintain such cash balances within our foreign subsidiaries, we may elect to distribute such cash to the Company in Puerto Rico.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $76.9 million compared with cash provided by operating activities of $71.1 million for the corresponding 2017 period.
The $5.8 million increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily driven by less cash used to pay down accounts payable and accrued liabilities, less cash used to prepay maintenance contracts and less cash used to pay income taxes.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company reclassified losses of $0.2 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense.
Based on current LIBOR rates, the Company expects to reclassify gains of $0.3 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense over the next 12 months.
For this reason Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification 280, Segment Reporting, and is excluded from the definition of non-GAAP financial measures under the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation G and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K.
•other companies, including other companies in our industry, may not use EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income, and Adjusted Earnings per common share or may calculate EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share differently than as presented in this Report, limiting their usefulness as a comparative measure.
You should not consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share as alternatives to cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of cash flows, as a measure of liquidity or as an alternative to operating or net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
5)Represents operating depreciation and amortization expense, which excludes amounts generated as a result of the Merger and other from purchase accounting intangibles generated from acquisitions.


item3.txt
Our senior secured credit facilities accrue interest at variable rates and only the Term B Loan is subject to floors or minimum rates.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates over our floor(s) on our debt balances outstanding as of June 30, 2018, after considering our interest rate swap, under the senior secured credit facilities would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $3.8 million.
Under this agreement, commencing on January 1, 2017, we began to receive a rate equal to the LIBOR applicable to our Term B loan, and pay a fixed rate equal to 1.9225%.
The net effect of the swap agreement is to fix the interest rate on $200 million of our Term B loan at 4.4225%, beginning January 1, 2017 and ending when the Term B Loan matures, in April 2020.


item4.txt
Exhibits
+ This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


