See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
The Company’s results for the three and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire 2019 fiscal year. References to the third quarters of 2019 and 2018 represent the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Our significant accounting policies are included in Note 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2018. On October 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). Significant changes to our policies resulting from the adoption are provided below. We adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective transition method applied to contracts that were not substantially complete at the end of fiscal year 2018. We recorded a $4.2 million adjustment to increase retained earnings to reflect the cumulative impact of adopting this standard at the beginning of fiscal year 2019, primarily related to certain long-term contracts our Filtration and Technical Packaging segments have that converted to the cost-to-cost method for revenue recognition. The comparative information has not been restated and is reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. A reconciliation of the financial statement line items impacted for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 under ASC 606 to the prior accounting standards is provided in Note 14.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized when control of the goods or services promised under the contract is transferred to the customer either at a point in time (e.g., upon delivery) or over time (e.g., as we perform under the contract). We account for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights and payment terms of the parties are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. Contracts are reviewed to determine whether there is one or multiple performance obligations. A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct good or service to a customer and represents the unit of accounting for revenue recognition. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the expected consideration, or the transaction price, is allocated to each performance obligation identified in the contract based on the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation. Revenue is then recognized for the transaction price allocated to the performance obligation when control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation is transferred.
Payment terms with customers vary by the type and location of the customer and the products or services offered. The Company does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of significant financing components based on the expectation that the period between when the Company transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less. Arrangements with customers that include payment terms extending beyond one year are not significant.
Approximately 52% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 19% of consolidated revenues) are accounted for over time as the product does not have an alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for costs incurred plus a reasonable margin or the inventory is owned by the customer. The related contracts are primarily cost-plus or fixed price contracts related to the design, development and manufacture of complex fluid control products, quiet valves, manifolds, shock and vibration dampening, thermal insulation and systems primarily for the commercial aerospace and military (U.S. Government) markets. The contracts may contain multiple products, which are capable of being distinct as the customer could benefit from each product on its own or together with other readily available resources. Each product is separately identifiable from the other products in the contract. Therefore, each product is distinct in context of the contract and will be accounted for as a separate performance obligation. Our contracts are frequently modified for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Most of our contract modifications are for products that are not distinct from the existing contract and are accounted for as part of that existing contract.
Contracts with the U.S. Government generally contain clauses that provide lien rights to work-in-process along with clauses that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process. Due to the continuous transfer of control to the U.S. Government, we recognize revenue over the time that we perform under the contract.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for the commercial and military contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or service to be provided. We generally use the cost-to-cost method to measure progress for our Filtration segment contracts the rate at which costs are incurred to fulfill a contract best depicts the transfer of control to the customer. Under this measure, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation, and revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred based on an estimated profit margin.
Under the typical payment terms of our long term fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments. Performance-based payments represent interim payments based on quantifiable measures of performance or on the achievement of specified events or milestones. Progress payments are interim payments of costs incurred as the work progresses. Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer billing, these contracts will often result in revenue recognized in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs incurred, which we present as contract assets and contract liabilities, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified in Accounts receivable, net. For short term fixed price and cost-type contracts, we are generally paid within a short period of time.
Approximately 75% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 17% of consolidated revenues) are recorded over time as the product does not have an alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for costs incurred plus a reasonable margin. Products accounted for under this guidance include the construction and installation of test chambers to a buyer’s specifications that provide its customers with the ability to measure and contain magnetic, electromagnetic and acoustic energy. The goods and services related to each installed test chamber are not distinct due to the significant amount of integration provided and each installed chamber is accounted for as a single performance obligation. Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for these contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products and service to be provided. We use milestones to measure progress for our Test segment contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. For arrangements that are accounted for under this guidance, the Company estimates profit as the difference between total revenue and total estimated cost of a contract and recognizes these revenues and costs based primarily on contract milestones. The transaction price for our contracts represents our best estimate of the consideration we will receive and includes assumptions regarding variable consideration as applicable.
Approximately 20% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 6% of consolidated revenues) are recognized over time as services are performed. The services accounted for under this method include an obligation to provide testing services using hardware and embedded software, software maintenance, training, lab testing, and consulting services. The related contracts contain a bundle of goods and services that are integrated in the context of the contract. Therefore, the goods and services are not distinct and the Company has a single performance obligation. Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for these contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products and service to be provided. We will recognize revenue as a series of distinct services based on each day of providing services (straight-line over the contract term) for our USG segment contracts. The transaction price for our contracts represents our best estimate of the consideration we will receive and includes assumptions regarding variable consideration as applicable. Under the typical payment terms of our service contracts, the customer pays us in advance of when services are performed. Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer payment, which is typically received upon commencement of the contract, these contracts result in deferred revenue, which we present as contract liabilities, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Included in this category, approximately 8% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 2% of consolidated revenues) are recognized based on the terms of the software contract. For contracts that transfer a software license to the customer, revenue will be recognized at a point in time. These type of software contracts represent a right to use the software, or a functional license, in which revenue should be recognized upon transfer of the license. For contracts in software as a service (SaaS) arrangements, revenue will be recognized over time. The customer receives and consumes the benefits of the SaaS arrangement through access to the system which is for a stated period. We will recognize revenue based on each day of providing access (straight-line over the contract term). The transaction price for our contracts represent our best estimate of the consideration we will receive and includes assumptions regarding variable consideration as applicable. Under the typical payment terms of our software contracts, the customer pays us in advance of when services are performed. Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer payment, these contracts result in deferred revenue, which we present as contract liabilities, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Contract Assets and Liabilities
Contract assets arise from contracts when revenue is recognized over time and the amount of revenue recognized, including our estimate of variable consideration that has been included in the transaction price, exceeds the amount billed to the customer. These amounts are included in contract assets until the right to payment is no longer conditional on events other than the passage of time. These contract assets are reclassified to receivables when the right to consideration becomes unconditional. Contract liabilities include deposits, deferred revenue, upfront payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized. Liabilities for customer rebates and discounts are included in other current liabilities in the accompanying balance sheet.
The Company provides compensation benefits to certain key employees under several share-based plans providing for performance-accelerated restricted shares (restricted shares), and to non-employee directors under a non-employee directors compensation plan.
Compensation expense related to the restricted share awards was $1.0 million and $3.1 million for the three and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $0.9 million and $3.1 million for the corresponding periods of 2018. There were 280,504 non-vested shares outstanding as of June 30, 2019.
Compensation expense related to the non-employee director grants was $0.3 million and $0.8 million for the three and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $0.3 million and $0.8 million for the corresponding periods of 2018.
The Company believes that the presentation of EBIT provides important supplemental information to investors to facilitate comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. However, the Company’s non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to other companies’ non-GAAP financial performance measures. Furthermore, the use of non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to replace any measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP.
At June 30, 2019, the Company had approximately $225 million available to borrow under the Credit Facility, and a $250 million increase option, in addition to $39.0 million cash on hand. At June 30, 2019, the Company had $217.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility, and $0.9 million of short-term borrowing in addition to outstanding letters of credit of $7.2 million. The Company classified $20.9 million as the current portion of long-term debt as of June 30, 2019, as the Company intends to repay this amount within the next twelve month period; however, the Company has no contractual obligation to repay such amount during the next twelve month period.
The Credit Facility requires, as determined by certain financial ratios, a facility fee ranging from 12.5 to 27.5 basis points per year on the unused portion. The terms of the facility provide that interest on borrowings may be calculated at a spread over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or based on the prime rate, at the Company’s election. The facility is secured by the unlimited guaranty of the Company’s material domestic subsidiaries and a 65% pledge of the material foreign subsidiaries’ share equity. The financial covenants of the Credit Facility include a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. The weighted average interest rates were 3.21% and 3.22% for the three and nine-month periods ending June 30, 2019, respectively, and 3.17% and 2.97% for the corresponding periods of 2018. At June 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants.
The third quarter 2019 effective income tax rate was 19.4% compared to 18.4% in the third quarter of 2018. The income tax expense for the first nine months of 2019 was $13.3 million compared to income tax benefit of $14.0 million for the first nine months of 2018. The effective income tax rate for the first nine months of 2019 was 19.2% compared to (28.1)% for the first nine months of 2018.
tax rate by 1.0% and 4.1%, respectively. Income tax expense in the third quarter of 2019 and first nine months of 2019 was also favorably impacted by additional tax benefits on share-based compensation that vested during the quarter decreasing the effective tax rate by 1.8% and 0.7%, respectively. A non-automatic accounting method change filed with the 2018 tax return was approved by the Internal Revenue Service during the third quarter of 2019 and favorably impacted the third quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 1.0% and 0.4%, respectively.
In the first quarter of 2018, the Company recorded a $2.3 million provisional estimate of the income tax effects of the future repatriation of the cumulative earnings of its foreign subsidiaries which unfavorably impacted the year-to-date effective tax rate by 4.7%. An additional $7.5 million pension contribution for the 2017 plan year was approved during the second quarter of 2018 increasing the value of the deferred tax liability by $1.0 million. This favorable adjustment, net of the $0.3 million unfavorable impact to the 2017 Domestic Production Deduction, favorably impacted the year-to-date effective tax rate by 1.6%. An accounting method change was filed with the 2017 tax return which resulted in an additional deferred tax liability to be adjusted as a result of the TCJA. A favorable adjustment, net of the $0.3 million unfavorable impact to the 2018 Domestic Production deduction, favorably impacted the third quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 2.9% and 1.4%, respectively. The income tax expense in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was favorably impacted by return to provision true-ups decreasing the third quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate by 1.4% and 0.7%, respectively. Income tax expense in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was also favorably impacted by additional tax benefits on share-based compensation that vested during the quarter decreasing the effective tax rate by 1.9% and 0.9%, respectively.
Market risks relating to the Company’s operations result primarily from changes in interest rates and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forward contracts and swaps, to manage these risks. In 2018, the Company entered into three interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150 million to hedge some of its exposure to variability in future LIBOR-based interest payments on variable rate debt. In addition, the Company’s Canadian subsidiary Morgan Schaffer enters into foreign exchange contracts to manage foreign currency risk as a portion of their revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company expects hedging gains or losses to be essentially offset by losses or gains on the related underlying exposures. All derivative instruments are reported in either accrued expenses or other receivables on the balance sheet at fair value. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income until recognized in earnings with the underlying hedged item. The interest rate swaps entered into during 2018 were not designated as cash flow hedges and, therefore, the gain or loss on the derivative is reflected in earnings each period.
●Level 1 – inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
●Level 2 – inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.
●Level 3 – inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.
Financial Assets and Liabilities
The Company has estimated the fair value of its financial instruments as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018 using available market information or other appropriate valuation methodologies. The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, inventories, payables, debt and other current assets and liabilities approximate fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments.
Valuation was based on third party evidence of similarly priced derivative instruments.
Nonfinancial Assets and Liabilities
Disaggregation of Revenues
Remaining Performance Obligations
Contract assets and liabilities
Assets and liabilities related to our contracts with customers are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. At June 30, 2019, contract assets and liabilities totaled $99.5 million and $53.8 million, respectively. Upon adoption of ASC 606 on October 1, 2018, contract assets and liabilities related to our contracts with customers were $87 million and $51 million, respectively. During the first nine months of 2019, we recognized approximately $35 million in revenues that were included in the contract liabilities balance at the adoption date.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-062, “Leases” (ASU 2016-02) which supersedes ASC 840, “Leases” and creates a new topic, ASC 842 “Leases.” Subsequent to the issuance of ASU 2016-02, ASC 842 was amended by various updates that amend and clarify the impact and implementation of the aforementioned update. These updates require lessees to recognize a lease liability and a lease asset for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than 12 months on its balance sheet. Upon initial application, the provisions of these updates are required to be applied using the modified retrospective method which requires retrospective adoption to each prior 
reporting period presented with the cumulative effect of adoption recorded to the earliest reporting period presented. An optional transition method can be utilized which requires retrospective adoption beginning on the date of adoption with the cumulative effect of initially applying these updates recognized at the date of initial adoption. These updates also expand the required quantitative and qualitative disclosures surrounding leases. These updates are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within those fiscal years, with earlier application permitted. We expect to adopt these updates on October 1, 2019 using the optional transition method. We continue to evaluate the impact these updates will have on our consolidated financial statements. Based upon the analysis and preliminary evaluation of the standard, we estimate the adoption will result in the addition of assets and liabilities of less than $30 million to our consolidated balance sheet, with no significant change to our consolidated statements of operations or cash flows. We believe the updates will also have an impact on our accounting policies, internal controls and disclosures related to leases.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which eliminates the exception for all intra-entity sale of assets other than inventory. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017. There was no significant impact to the Company’s consolidated financial statements as a result of adopting this new standard.
On July 2, 2019, the Company acquired Globe Composite Solutions, LLC (Globe), a supplier of mission-critical composite-based products and solutions for navy, defense, and industrial customers. Globe’s operating results from date of acquisition will be included in the Company’s Filtration segment.
