fls.txt



item1.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We record all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities at fair value.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from May 2018 through April 2019.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S.
At April 30, 2018, we had approximately $1.4 million of losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Included in this amount were $339,000 of unrealized losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through April 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.


item2.txt
Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consuming markets.
Machine castings and components to support HML’s production are manufactured at our wholly-owned subsidiary in Ningbo, China, Ningbo Machine Tool Co., Ltd.
Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments, principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
See Note 2 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.


item3.txt
Interest on borrowings on our credit facilities are variable and tied to prevailing domestic and foreign interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Pursuant to applicable accounting rules, we accrue the minimum liability for each known claim when the estimated outcome is a range of possible loss and no one amount within that range is more likely than another.


