fls.txt



item1.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training, and applications support.
However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized machine tools.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
We adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on November 1, 2018, the start of our 2019 fiscal year, and elected the modified retrospective method as of the date of adoption.
Prior to the adoption of ASC 606, our revenues were already recognized in the same manner as that required by ASC 606.
We record revenues based on a five-step model in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidance codified in ASC 606.
We deem that the customer obtains control upon delivery of the product and that obtaining control is not contingent upon contractual customer acceptance.
Depending upon geographic location, after shipment, a machine may be installed at the customer’s facilities by a distributor, independent contractor or by one of our service technicians.
We consider the machine installation process for our three-axis machines to be inconsequential and perfunctory.
Service fees from maintenance contracts are deferred and recognized in earnings on a prorata basis over the term of the contract and are generally sold on a stand-alone basis.


item2.txt
Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consumption markets.
Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments, principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
See Note 3 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Sales and service fees for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $58.5 million, a decrease of $20.3 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of $1.9 million, or 2%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.


item3.txt
Our purchases are predominantly in foreign currencies and in some cases our arrangements with these suppliers include foreign currency risk sharing agreements, which reduce (but do not eliminate) the effects of currency fluctuations on product costs.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Pursuant to applicable accounting rules, we accrue the minimum liability for each known claim when the estimated outcome is a range of possible loss and no one amount within that range is more likely than another.


