fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company reviews finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of assets may not be recoverable.
Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method.
In the ordinary course of global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain.
We may also be subject to security breaches of our information technology systems and certain of our products caused by viruses, illegal break-ins or hacking, sabotage, or acts of vandalism by third parties or our employees or contractors.
In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demands, which may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis.
These payment terms are not contingent upon the distributors’ sale of the products to their customers.
Judgment is required in determining the worldwide income tax provision.
The dividend will be paid on September 12, 2018 to all shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2018.
•The ICs marketed by each of the Company's operating segments are sold globally through a direct sales force, third-party distributors, independent sales representatives and via the Company's website to the same types of customers.
We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information.
 On March 12, 2018, in an underwritten public offering, the Company issued $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.850% senior unsecured notes due March 12, 2020 (the 2020 Notes) and $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.950% senior unsecured notes due January 12, 2021 (the January 2021 Notes and, together with the 2020 Notes, the Notes).
The market risk associated with the Company’s derivative instruments results from currency exchange rate or interest rate movements that are expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market.
Conversely, during periods of rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand.


item2.txt
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we entered into a lease agreement for approximately 445,000 sq.
The Rest of Asia included $192.7 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to $94.8 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition.
The following changes contributed to the net decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018 as compared to the same period in fiscal 2017.
The table below summarizes the activity related to stock repurchases for the three months ended August 4, 2018.
The sales decrease in the United States in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of a decrease in demand for our products sold into the Consumer end market, partially offset by an increase in demand for our products sold into the Industrial end market.
We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2018 to be in the range of $230.0 million to $270.0 million.


item3.txt



part2.txt
To remain competitive, we may need to invest in or acquire other companies, purchase or license technology from third parties, or enter into other strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or enhance our existing products.
We may not be able to obtain foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications.
•a decline in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, a prolonged U.S. government shutdown or delays in contract awards;
Under some of our government subcontracts, we are required to maintain secure facilities and to obtain security clearances for personnel involved in performance of the contract, in compliance with applicable federal standards.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our outstanding term loans and senior unsecured notes.
Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional.
We, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on supplies, services, internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and other subcontractors in geologically unstable locations around the world.


