fls.txt



item1.txt
In addition, price protection and price-adjustment credits granted to distributors historically have not exceeded the margins the Company earns on sales of its products.
The Company is also analyzing other provisions of the Tax Legislation to determine if they will impact the Company's effective rate for fiscal 2018 or in the future.
In order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by issuing securities or borrowing money.
The following table provides the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI) by component and the related tax effects during the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Revenue from product sales to customers is generally recognized when title passes, which is upon shipment in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries.
These unvested stock-based compensation awards are considered participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating earnings per share.
Product returns from distributors that are ultimately scrapped have historically been immaterial.
In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios.
The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which the Company’s product will be incorporated.
These pro forma results have been prepared for comparative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the operating results of the Company that would have been achieved had the Acquisition actually taken place on November 1, 2015.
As of May 5, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the Company had gross deferred revenue of $701.3 million and $589.5 million, respectively, and gross deferred cost of sales of $135.6 million and $115.5 million, respectively.
•increased risk of costly and time-consuming legal proceedings.
Sales to certain of these distributors are made under agreements that allow such distributors to receive price-adjustment credits, as discussed below, and to return qualifying products for credit, as determined by the Company, in order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or obsolete product from their inventory.
Inventory in excess of saleable amounts is not valued, and the remaining inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market.
The Company intends to elect to pay this transition tax starting in fiscal 2019 without incurring interest over a period of eight years.
As a United States government contractor or subcontractor, we are subject to federal contracting regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which govern the allowability of costs incurred by us in the performance of United States government contracts.


item2.txt
Deferred income on shipments to distributors increased in the first six months of fiscal 2018, primarily as a result of higher demand for products sold into the channel.
The Company has a partial tax holiday in Singapore through August 2019 and a partial tax holiday in Malaysia through July 2025.
Additionally, the sales increase in China and the Rest of Asia in the six-month period ended May 5, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was a result of an additional week of operations in the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2017.
On the Acquisition Date, we drew down on a 3-year unsecured term loan in the principal amount of $2.5 billion, due March 10, 2020 and a 5-year unsecured term loan in the principal amount of $2.5 billion, due March 10, 2022.
On the Acquisition Date, we borrowed under a term loan agreement consisting of a 3-year unsecured term loan in the principal amount of $2.5 billion, due March 10, 2020 and a 5-year unsecured term loan in the principal amount of $2.5 billion, due March 10, 2022.
The increase in cash provided by operating activities during the six-month period ended May 5, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of changes in working capital, partially offset by lower net income adjusted for non-cash items, primarily resulting from changes to income taxes related to the Tax Legislation.


item3.txt



part2.txt
•a decline in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, a prolonged U.S. government shutdown or delays in contract awards;
In order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by issuing securities or borrowing money.
In order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by issuing securities or borrowing money.
A prolonged disruption at, or inability to utilize, one or more of our manufacturing facilities, loss of raw materials or damage to our manufacturing equipment for any reason, including due to natural or man-made disasters, civil unrest or other events outside of our control, such as widespread outbreaks of illness or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, may disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in us being unable to timely satisfy customer demand.
Our insurance may not adequately cover losses resulting from such disruptions.
If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers.
Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our authorization.


