fls.txt



item1.txt
The additional week in fiscal 2018 was included in the first quarter ended February 3, 2018.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 (fiscal 2019) or any future period.
Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and certain commercial customers is recorded over time using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress toward completion.
ASU 2016-16 requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
There was no material ineffectiveness recorded within OCI related to designated forward foreign currency derivative instruments in the three-month periods ended February 2, 2019 and February 3, 2018.
The tables exclude cash on hand and assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost or any basis other than fair value.
If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers.
tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters may disrupt local semiconductor-related businesses and adversely affect manufacturing capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment, and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide.
During the three-month period ended February 3, 2018, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e., the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $53.9 million, and the total amount of proceeds received by the Company from the exercise of these options was $37.8 million.
Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.
If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers.
Conversely, during periods of rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand.
ASU 2016-13 requires a financial asset (or group of financial assets) measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
The amounts potentially subject to credit risk (arising from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts) are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties’ obligations under the contracts exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties.
Any such suspension or debarment or other sanction could have an adverse effect on our business.
The estimation of costs at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.


item2.txt
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a consolidated leverage ratio covenant of total consolidated funded debt to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 4.5 to 1.0.
The FASB has issued several amendments and updates to the new revenue standard, including guidance related to when an entity should recognize revenue gross as a principal or net as an agent and how an entity should identify performance obligations.
There have not been any material changes during the three-month period ended February 2, 2019 to the amounts presented in the table summarizing our contractual obligations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law.


item3.txt



part2.txt
The stock market has historically experienced volatility, especially within the semiconductor industry, that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies.
Acquisitions, investments and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory approvals, and difficulties related to integration efforts.
Termination of a significant distributor or a group of distributors, whether at our initiative or the distributor’s initiative or through consolidation in the distribution industry, could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements with the appropriate scale and resources, our operating results could be adversely affected.
•costs associated with our foreign defined benefit pension plans.
As a United States government contractor or subcontractor, we are subject to federal contracting regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which govern the allowability of costs incurred by us in the performance of United States government contracts.
We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, and the sale of our stock may result in the dilution of our existing shareholders or the issuance of securities with rights that are superior to the rights of our common shareholders.
Changes in these laws and regulations, including those that align to or are associated with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Actions Plans, could impact the jurisdictions where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn adversely affect our tax liability and results of operations.
We are subject to environmental, health and safety (EHS) regulations, which could increase our expenses and affect our operating results.


