fls.txt



item1.txt
We rely on supplies, services and manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable areas, which could affect our ability to produce products.
•complex, varying and changing government regulations and legal standards and requirements, particularly with respect to price protection, competition practices, export control regulations and restrictions, customs and tax requirements, immigration, anti-boycott regulations, data privacy, intellectual property, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, including U.S. customs and export regulations and restrictions, International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;
The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of integrated circuits (ICs).
Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.
In addition, investments in private companies are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of our investment.
Interest Rate Exposure Management — The Company's current and future debt may be subject to interest rate risk.
When this occurs, the Company reclassifies revenue by end market for prior periods.
In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demands, which may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis.
The Company estimates $2.3 million, net of tax, of losses of forward foreign currency derivative instruments included in OCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection.
We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on third-party suppliers, assembly and test subcontractors, freight carriers and wafer fabricators (collectively, suppliers) to supply most of our products that can be manufactured using industry-standard processes.
In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demands, which may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis.
In connection with our United States government business, we are also subject to government audits and to review and approval of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws.
Changes in the fair values of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting are reported in earnings as they occur.
The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2016-02, ASU 2018-01 and ASU 2018-11 to have a material impact on its results of operations.
Contract costs include material, subcontract costs, labor and an allocation of indirect costs.


item2.txt
ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Employees included in this action must continue to be employed by us until their employment is terminated by us in order to receive the severance benefits.
We repaid the $75 million plus interest of $0.2 million in January 2019.
Additionally, the guidance requires improved disclosures to help users of financial statements better understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
Cash used for investing activities during the six-month period ended May 4, 2019, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, remained flat, as increased capital spending was offset by decreased payments for acquisitions.


item3.txt



part2.txt
To remain competitive, we may need to invest in or acquire other companies, purchase or license technology from third parties, or enter into other strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or enhance our existing products.
Additionally, the United States government is entitled after final payment on certain negotiated contracts to examine all of our cost records with respect to such contracts and to seek a downward adjustment to the price of the contract if it determines that we failed to furnish complete, accurate and current cost or pricing data in connection with the negotiation of the price of the contract.
Additionally, the United States government is entitled after final payment on certain negotiated contracts to examine all of our cost records with respect to such contracts and to seek a downward adjustment to the price of the contract if it determines that we failed to furnish complete, accurate and current cost or pricing data in connection with the negotiation of the price of the contract.
Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the global credit and financial markets could cause the value of the currency in the affected markets to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of those customers.
Many of these risks are present in China.
Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, employee malfeasance, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events.
There can be no assurance (i) that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them, or (ii) that we will be able to design, develop and produce products in a timely fashion to accommodate changing customer demand.
Security breaches of our information technology systems or those of our partners could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential and proprietary information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.


