fls.txt



item1.txt
Accordingly, future adjustments to the financial statements may be necessary depending upon the substance of the final regulations, when issued.
In fiscal 2018, the Company recorded a provisional tax expense amount for the one-time transition tax of $691.0 million, which is comprised of the $755.0 million transition tax liability less a deferred tax liability of $64.0 million that was recorded in prior years.
As a result of the above considerations, the Company does not consider the risk of counterparty default to be significant.
•U.S.
As data systems for capturing and tracking this data and the Company's methodology evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time.
The difference between the income allocated to participating securities under the basic and diluted two-class methods is not material.
Except for the Linear pre-acquisition audit year, the Company’s U.S. federal tax returns prior to the fiscal year ended October 29, 2016 are no longer subject to examination.
In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies, international trade policies and relations, or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions on imports or exports, currency revaluations, or retaliatory actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results.
See Note 13, New Accounting Pronouncements, and Note 12, Income Taxes, in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the adoption of ASU 2016-16.
certain specified foreign currencies.
As of August 3, 2019 and November 3, 2018, the Company held $250.7 million and $217.6 million, respectively, of cash and held-to-maturity investments that were excluded from the tables below.
We do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or other employees.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 the Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition.
This reliance involves several risks, including reduced control over availability, capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs.
The Company monitors global macroeconomic conditions on an ongoing basis and continues to assess opportunities for improved operational effectiveness and efficiency, as well as a better alignment of expenses with revenues.


item2.txt
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
Except for the accounting policy for revenue recognition that was updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there were no other material changes in the nine-month period ended August 3, 2019 to the information provided under the heading “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018.
Should such a change occur, we may be authorized to increase the covenant back to 4.0 to 1.0.
Additionally, the guidance requires improved disclosures to help users of financial statements better understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
The FASB has issued several amendments and updates to the new revenue standard, including guidance related to when an entity should recognize revenue gross as a principal or net as an agent and how an entity should identify performance obligations.


item3.txt



part2.txt
As we intend to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely, certain cash held outside the United States may not be available for repatriation as dividends to the United States in the future.
We rely on third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers for some industry-standard wafers, manufacturing processes, assembly and test services, and transportation, and we generally cannot control their availability or conditions of supply.
If we breach any of the covenants under our revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes, the term loan facility or any future debt instruments to which we may become subject and do not obtain appropriate waivers, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable or we may be restricted from further borrowing under our revolving credit facility.
We also rely upon external cloud providers for certain infrastructure activities.
We generally warrant our products to our customers for one year from the date title passes from us.
In certain cases, our potential indemnification liability may be significant.
At August 3, 2019, our principal source of liquidity was $612.2 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $262.6 million was held in the United States and the remaining balance was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries.
Many of these risks are present in China.


