fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of TE Connectivity Ltd. (“TE Connectivity” or the “Company,” which may be referred to as “we,” “us,” or “our”) have been prepared in United States (“U.S.”) dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”) and the instructions to Form 10-Q under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018.
Unless otherwise indicated, references in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are to our fiscal years ending September 27, 2019 and ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
We account for revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which introduced a single, comprehensive, five-step revenue recognition model.
Revenue is recognized as performance obligations under the terms of a contract, such as a purchase order with a customer, are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control.
We apply the practical expedient of ASC 606 with respect to financing components and do not evaluate contracts in which payment is due within one year of satisfaction of the related performance obligation.
Since our performance obligations to deliver products are part of contracts that generally have original durations of one year or less, we have elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of transaction prices associated with unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations as of June 28, 2019.
We estimate these amounts in the same period revenue is recognized based on the expected value to be provided to customers and reduce revenue accordingly.
This guidance, as subsequently amended, requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for most leases and is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We believe that we are following an appropriate timeline to allow for the proper recognition, reporting, and disclosure of leases upon adoption of ASC 842 at the beginning of fiscal 2020.
We elected to early adopt this update, which did not have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, in the quarter ended December 28, 2018.
This guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory in the period in which the transfer occurs.
The update was adopted on a modified retrospective basis in the quarter ended December 28, 2018 and resulted in a $443 million cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning accumulated earnings, which represented the net reversal of all balances associated with deferred tax impacts of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.


item2.txt
TE Connectivity Ltd. (“TE Connectivity” or the “Company,” which may be referred to as “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a global technology and manufacturing leader creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future.
For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home.
●Our net sales decreased 5.4% and 3.2% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018, with sales declines in the Transportation Solutions and Communications Solutions segments, partially offset by growth in the Industrial Solutions segment.
On an organic basis, our net sales decreased 2.8% and 0.5% during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018.
●Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 6.8% and 5.6% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market.
●Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 1.7% and 3.4% during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, primarily as a result of increased sales in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market.
●Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales declines in the industrial equipment and energy end markets to be partially offset by growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market.
In the industrial equipment end market, sales declines resulting from high inventory levels at distributors are expected to be partially offset by growth in medical applications.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.81 to $0.87 per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $50 million and $0.03 per share, respectively, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
In the industrial equipment end market, we expect net sales declines resulting from market weakness in industrial applications to be partially offset by growth in medical applications.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $5.42 to $5.48 per share in fiscal 2019.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $400 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we acquired three businesses for a combined cash purchase price of $296 million, net of cash acquired.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we sold our Subsea Communications (“SubCom”) business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre-tax loss on sale of $86 million.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
There have been no material developments in our legal proceedings since we filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, except as set forth in “Part II.


