item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of TE Connectivity Ltd. (“TE Connectivity” or the “Company,” which may be referred to as “we,” “us,” or “our”) have been prepared in United States (“U.S.”) dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”) and the instructions to Form 10-Q under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018.
Unless otherwise indicated, references in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are to our fiscal years ending September 27, 2019 and ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
We account for revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which introduced a single, comprehensive, five-step revenue recognition model.
Revenue is recognized as performance obligations under the terms of a contract, such as a purchase order with a customer, are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control.
We apply the practical expedient of ASC 606 with respect to financing components and do not evaluate contracts in which payment is due within one year of satisfaction of the related performance obligation.
Since our performance obligations to deliver products are part of contracts that generally have original durations of one year or less, we have elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of transaction prices associated with unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations as of March 29, 2019.
We believe that we are following an appropriate timeline to allow for the proper recognition, reporting, and disclosure of leases upon adoption of ASC 842 at the beginning of fiscal 2020.
We elected to early adopt this update, which did not have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, in the quarter ended December 28, 2018.
This guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory in the period in which the transfer occurs.
The update was adopted on a modified retrospective basis in the quarter ended December 28, 2018 and resulted in a $443 million cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning accumulated earnings, which represented the net reversal of all balances associated with deferred tax impacts of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
This included a decrease in other assets of $798 million, an increase in deferred tax assets of $418 million, and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $63 million on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.


item2.txt
TE Connectivity Ltd. (“TE Connectivity” or the “Company,” which may be referred to as “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a global technology and manufacturing leader creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future.
·    Our net sales decreased 4.2% and 2.0% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018, with sales declines in the Transportation Solutions and, to a lesser degree, the Communications Solutions segment, partially offset by growth in the Industrial Solutions segment.
On an organic basis, our net sales decreased 0.5% during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and increased 0.7% during the first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018.
·    Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 7.6% and 5.0% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market.
·    Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 3.6% and 4.4% during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, primarily as a result of increased sales in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market.
·    Communications Solutions—Our net sales decreased 4.8% and 1.3% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the appliances end market.
·    Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be offset by declines in the energy and industrial equipment end markets.
In the industrial equipment end market, market weakness in factory automation and controls applications is expected to be partially offset by growth in medical applications.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.13 to $1.17 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $120 million and $0.06 per share, respectively, in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
·    Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales increase in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be partially offset by declines in the energy end market.
In the industrial equipment end market, we expect market weakness in factory automation and controls applications to be largely offset by growth in medical applications.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $4.88 to $4.98 per share in fiscal 2019.
This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $400 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we sold our Subsea Communications (“SubCom”) business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre‑tax loss on sale of $86 million.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
There have been no material developments in our legal proceedings since we filed our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, except as set forth in “Part II.


