ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Forward-Looking Statements 



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. Forward-looking statements are based on our management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “goal,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “predict,” “potential” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time frames or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, time frames or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties and other factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in greater detail under the heading “Risk Factors.” Given these risks, uncertainties and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this filing. You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future.



All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company.





The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with “Item 6. Selected Financial Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 and “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, before deciding to purchase or sell shares of our common stock.



Overview



Our Company and Our Businesses



Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer science. We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI. Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.





While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices. 



Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.





Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges



Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2019 Summary





Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 increased 21% year over year and increased 2% sequentially. GPU business revenue was $2.77 billion, up 25% from a year earlier and up 4% sequentially, reflecting growth in professional visualization, datacenter, and gaming GPUs. Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes automotive, SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console, and other embedded edge AI platforms - was $407 million, down 3% from a year ago and down 13% sequentially. 



Gaming revenue was $1.76 billion, up 13% from a year ago driven by growth in gaming GPUs, and down 2% sequentially as gaming GPU growth was more than offset by a seasonal decline in SOC modules for Nintendo Switch. Gaming GPU growth was fueled by Turing-based GPUs for desktops and by gaming notebooks based on our Max-Q technology.



Professional visualization revenue was $305 million, up 28% from a year earlier and up 9% sequentially driven by strength across both desktop and mobile workstation products. 



Datacenter revenue was $792 million, up 58% from a year ago and up 4% sequentially, led by strong sales of our Volta architecture-based products, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems, with contribution from the new Turing T4 Cloud GPU. 



Automotive revenue of $172 million was up 19% from a year earlier and up 7% sequentially, incorporating infotainment modules, production DRIVE PX platforms, and development agreements with automotive companies.



OEM and IP revenue was $148 million, down 23% from a year ago, due to the absence of cryptocurrency mining.



Gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 was 60.4%. Gross margins increased from a year ago - reflecting our continued shift toward higher-value platforms, which more than offset the current quarter impact of $57 million in charges related to prior architecture components and chips following the sharp fall-off in cryptocurrency mining demand.



Operating expenses for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 were $863 million, up 28% from a year earlier and up 6% sequentially, reflecting increased headcount and related costs for our growth initiatives - including gaming, professional visualization, AI, and autonomous driving.



Income from operations for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $1.06 billion, up 18% from a year earlier and down 9% sequentially. Net income and net income per diluted share for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 were $1.23 billion and $1.97, respectively, up 47% and 48%, respectively, from a year earlier, fueled by strong revenue growth and improved gross margin. 





We previously announced our plan to return $1.25 billion to shareholders in fiscal year 2019. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, we returned $1.13 billion to shareholders through a combination of $855 million in share repurchases and $273 million in cash dividends. In November 2018, our board of directors authorized an additional $7.00 billion under our share repurchase program for a total of $7.94 billion available through the end of December 2022. We announced a 7% increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.16 per share from $0.15 per share, to be paid with our next quarterly cash dividend on December 21, 2018, to all shareholders of record on November 30, 2018. We intend to return an additional $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, which may begin in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.



Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $7.59 billion as of October 28, 2018, compared with $7.94 billion at the end of the prior quarter. The decrease was primarily related to third quarter stock repurchases, dividends and taxes paid related to restricted stock units, partially offset by operating income and changes in working capital.



GPU Business



During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we introduced RAPIDS, an open-source GPU-acceleration platform for data science and machine learning; launched the NVIDIA T4 cloud GPU and NVIDIA TensorRT Hyperscale Inference Platform to deliver advanced acceleration in hyperscale datacenters; launched the NVIDIA RTX Server; released the GeForce RTX series, the first gaming GPUs based on the Turing architecture; and unveiled the Quadro RTX series, which is designed to revolutionize the workflow of designers and artists on the desktop.



During the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we marked the launch of the Summit supercomputer at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, powered by NVIDIA Volta Tensor Core GPUs; introduced NVIDIA HGX-2, a unified computing platform for both AI and high performance computing; announced that five of the world’s seven fastest supercomputers are powered by NVIDIA GPUs; introduced the NVIDIA HGX-2 platform for both AI and HPC; and launched AIRI Mini with Pure Storage and ONTAP AI with NetApp for implementing and scaling deep learning. We also announced a number of Max-Q GeForce gaming notebook designs offered by major OEMs, enabling high-end performance for thin and light notebooks; disclosed that next-generation NVIDIA G-SYNC HDR displays are being shipped, enabling stutter-free gaming; and announced NVIDIA’s role in VirtualLink, a consortium establishing an industry standard to enable next-gen VR headsets to connect with PCs using a single, high-bandwidth USB Type-C connector. In August 2018, we unveiled our first Turing-based GPUs -- NVIDIA Quadro RTX 8000, RTX 6000 and RTX 5000 -- which we believe will revolutionize the work of millions of designers and artists; and introduced the NVIDIA RTX Server, a ray-tracing global illumination rendering server for render farms.



During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we announced NVIDIA RTX, a computer graphics technology that produces movie-quality images in real time. We also unveiled advances to our deep learning computing platform - including NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPUs with 32GB memory, NVIDIA NVSwitch GPU interconnect fabric, NVIDIA DGX-2, and TensorRT 4, the latest version of the TensorRT AI inference accelerator software. In addition, we announced GPU acceleration for Kubernetes to facilitate enterprise inference deployment on multi-cloud GPU clusters and the Quadro GV100 GPU with RTX technology, making real-time ray tracing possible on professional design and content creation applications.



Tegra Processor Business



During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we announced NVIDIA’s first level-2 autopilot design wins with Toyota, Volvo Cars and Isuzu Motors; announced the start of production of our Xavier single-chip autopilot SOC and started shipping the NVIDIA DRIVE AGX Xavier developer kit; and announced that Yamaha Motor Co. will use NVIDIA to power its upcoming lineup of autonomous machines.



During the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we announced that Daimler and Bosch have selected NVIDIA’s DRIVE platform to bring automated and driverless vehicles to city streets, with pilot testing set to begin next year in Silicon Valley. 



During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we introduced the NVIDIA DRIVE Constellation server with DRIVE Sim software, a complete system to safely test drive autonomous vehicles over billions of miles in virtual reality by leveraging NVIDIA GPUs and NVIDIA DRIVE Pegasus.



Financial Information by Business Segment and Geographic Data



Refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure regarding segment information.





Results of Operations



The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income expressed as a percentage of revenue.





Revenue



Revenue by Reportable Segments







GPU Business. GPU business revenue increased by 25% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. This increase was due primarily to 20% growth in sales of GeForce GPU products for gaming, driven by initial sales of Turing-based GPUs for desktops and by high-performance notebooks based on our Max-Q technology. Datacenter revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, increased 58%, reflecting strong sales of our Volta architecture products, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 28% due primarily to higher sales across desktop and mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue decreased by almost 40% driven by lower demand for GPU products targeted for use in cryptocurrency mining.



GPU business revenue increased by 44% for the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2018. This increase was due primarily to over 40% growth in sales of GeForce GPU products for gaming, driven by initial sales of Turing-based GPUs for desktops, Pascal-based GPUs for desktops and by high-performance notebooks based on our Max-Q technology. Datacenter revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, increased 70%, reflecting strong sales of our Volta architecture, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 23% due primarily to higher sales across desktop and mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue increased by almost 20% due primarily to sales of GPU products targeted for use in cryptocurrency mining in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.



Tegra Processor Business. Tegra Processor business revenue decreased by 3% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. This was driven by a decrease of about 30% in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms, which was partially offset by an increase of 19% in automotive revenue, primarily from DRIVE PX platforms and development agreements with automotive companies, as well as from infotainment modules.



Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 21% for the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2018. This was driven by an increase of 30% in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms, and an increase of 12% in automotive revenue, primarily from DRIVE PX platforms and development agreements with automotive companies, as well as from infotainment modules.



All Other. Our patent license agreement with Intel concluded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.



Concentration of Revenue 



Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and Other Americas accounted for 82% and 81% of total revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, respectively. Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and Other Americas accounted for 83% and 80% of total revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018, respectively. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the revenue is attributable to end customers in a different location.



No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal years 2019 and 2018.



Gross Margin



Our overall gross margin increased to 60.4% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 from 59.5% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. Our overall gross margin increased to 62.7% for the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 from 59.1% for the first nine months of fiscal year 2018. These increases reflect our continued shift toward higher-value platforms, which more than offset a charge of $57 million we recorded during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 related to prior architecture components and chips following the sharp fall-off in cryptocurrency mining demand.



Inventory provisions totaled $70 million and $14 million for the third quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $13 million and $6 million for the third quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was an unfavorable impact of 1.8% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, and a nominal impact for the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.



Inventory provisions totaled $124 million and $30 million for the first nine months of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $29 million for each of the first nine months of fiscal years 2019 and 2018. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was an unfavorable impact of 1.0% for the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 and a nominal impact for the first nine months of fiscal year 2018.





GPU Business. The gross margin of our GPU business was flat during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. Gross margin of our GPU business increased during the first nine months of 





fiscal year 2019 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, primarily due to strong sales of high-end GeForce gaming GPUs and revenue growth in Datacenter. 



Tegra Processor Business. The gross margin of our Tegra Processor business increased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019 compared to the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018, primarily due to a favorable mix shift.



Operating Expenses 





Research and Development



Research and development expenses increased by 31% and 34% during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, compared to the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018, respectively, driven primarily by employee additions and increases in employee compensation and other related costs, including stock-based compensation expense.



Sales, General and Administrative



Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by 22% during both the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, compared to the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018, driven primarily by employee additions and increases in employee compensation and other related costs, including stock-based compensation expense.



Total Other Income (Expense)



Interest Income and Interest Expense



Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income was $37 million and $17 million during the third quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $94 million and $48 million during the first nine months of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in interest income was primarily due to higher rates from our floating rate securities and the purchase of new securities.



Interest expense is primarily comprised of coupon interest and debt discount amortization related to the 2.20% Notes Due 2021 and 3.20% Notes Due 2026 issued in September 2016, and the 1.00% Convertible Notes Due 2018, or the Convertible Notes, issued in December 2013. Interest expense was $15 million during each of the third quarters of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, and $44 million and $46 million during the first nine months of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively.



Other, Net



Other, net, consists primarily of realized or unrealized gains and losses from non-affiliated investments, losses on early debt conversions of the Convertible Notes, and the impact of changes in foreign currency rates. Other, net, was not significant during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019. Other, net, was not significant during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 and $22 million of expense during the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, consisting primarily of $19 million of losses recognized from early conversions of the Convertible Notes during the first nine months of fiscal year 2018.





Income Taxes



We recognized income tax benefit of $149 million and $3 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, respectively, and income tax expense of $58 million and $189 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018, respectively. Income tax benefit as a percentage of income before income tax was 13.8% and nominal for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, respectively, and income tax expense as a percentage of income before tax was 6.5% and 8.9% for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018, respectively. 



The decrease in our effective tax rate for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019 as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year was primarily due to a decrease in the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% as a result of U.S. tax reform, and a $138 million reduction in our provisional U.S. tax reform transition tax amount in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, partially offset by a decrease in the impact of tax benefits from stock-based compensation.



Refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.



Liquidity and Capital Resources 







As of October 28, 2018, we had $7.59 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $483 million from the end of fiscal year 2018. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed internally. Our investment policy requires the purchase of high-grade investment securities, the diversification of asset types, and certain limits on our portfolio duration.



Cash provided by operating activities increased in the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, due to higher net income, partially offset by changes in working capital. 



Cash used in investing activities increased in the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, due to higher purchases of marketable securities, partially offset by higher maturities of marketable securities.



Cash used in financing activities decreased in the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, due to lower repayments of Convertible Notes, partially offset by higher tax payments related to employee stock plans.



Liquidity



Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, our marketable securities, and the cash generated by our operations. Our marketable securities consist of debt securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, highly rated corporations and financial institutions, asset-backed issuers, mortgage-backed securities by government-sponsored enterprises, and foreign government entities. These marketable securities are denominated in United States dollars. Refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



As a result of the Tax Cuts and Job Acts that was signed into law in December 2017, substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held outside of the United States as of October 28, 2018 are available for use in the United States without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes. Refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.





Capital Return to Shareholders



We previously announced our plan to return $1.25 billion to shareholders in fiscal year 2019. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, we returned $1.13 billion to shareholders through a combination of $855 million in share repurchases and $273 million in cash dividends. In November 2018, our board of directors authorized an additional $7.00 billion under our share repurchase program for a total of $7.94 billion available through the end of December 2022. We announced a 7% increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.16 per share from $0.15 per share, to be paid with our next quarterly cash dividend on December 21, 2018, to all shareholders of record on November 30, 2018. We intend to return an additional $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, which may begin in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.



Our cash dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under that program are subject to our Board's continuing determination that the dividend program and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Notes Due 2021 and Notes Due 2026 



In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the 2.20% Notes Due 2021 and $1.00 billion of the 3.20% Notes Due 2026, collectively, the Notes. The net proceeds from the Notes were $1.98 billion, after deducting debt discounts and issuance costs.



Convertible Notes



We had $3 million in principal of Convertible Notes outstanding as of October 28, 2018, which will mature on December 1, 2018. Holders may convert all or any portion of their Convertible Notes before the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, regardless of conversion conditions. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.



Revolving Credit Facility 



We have a Credit Agreement under which we may borrow up to $575 million for general corporate purposes and can obtain revolving loan commitments up to $425 million. As of October 28, 2018, we had not borrowed any amounts under this agreement.



Commercial Paper 



We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. As of October 28, 2018, we had not issued any commercial paper.



Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements



In the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we began construction on a 750,000 square foot building on our Santa Clara campus, which is currently targeted for completion in fiscal year 2022. We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



As of October 28, 2018, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by applicable SEC regulations.



Contractual Obligations



There were no material changes in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.



Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a description of our contractual obligations.





Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements



Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of adoption of new and recently issued accounting pronouncements.



ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock. 



Since the inception of our share repurchase program, we have repurchased an aggregate of 255 million shares under our share repurchase program for a total cost of $6.36 billion through October 28, 2018. All shares delivered from these repurchases have been placed into treasury stock.



In November 2018, the Board authorized an additional $7.00 billion under our share repurchase program and extended it through the end of December 2022. As of November 5, 2018, we were authorized to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $7.94 billion through December 2022.



For fiscal year 2019, we previously announced our plan to return $1.25 billion to shareholders. We now intend to return an additional $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, which may begin in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.



The repurchases can be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured share repurchase programs, and can be made in one or more larger repurchases. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion.







Transactions Related to our Convertible Notes and Note Hedges



During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we issued 485 thousand shares of our common stock upon settlement of $11 million in principal of Convertible Notes submitted for conversion. In connection with these conversions, we exercised a portion of our Note Hedges to acquire an equal number of shares of our common stock. The counterparty to the Note Hedges may be deemed an “affiliated purchaser” and may have purchased the shares of our common stock deliverable to us upon this exercise of our option. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Convertible Notes and the Note Hedges.



Restricted Stock Unit Share Withholding



We also withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards under our employee equity incentive program. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we withheld approximately 1.7 million shares at a total cost of $467 million through net share settlements. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, we withheld approximately 3.8 million shares at a total cost of $982 million through net share settlements. Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our equity incentive plans.





ITEM 6. EXHIBITS















SIGNATURE



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.





 NVIDIA Corporation 





 Colette M. Kress



 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Duly Authorized Officer and Principal Financial Officer)



