Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31.
The nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018 included 272 and 273 days, respectively.
As of and during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
As of September 29, 2019, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
As of September 29, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $9.7 million, $3.9 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
Additionally, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements.
We implemented SEC Release No.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.
For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied.Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real.
During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, approximately 48% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.
We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate.
To the extent that we exceed the market growth rates, we consider it to be the result of capturing market share.
In 2019, we began a restructuring program to integrate Opterna and FutureLink with our existing businesses.