fls.txt



item1.txt
•Include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
As of and during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
As of June 30, 2019, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
As of June 30, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.4 million, $3.6 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
Additionally, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.
We generate revenues primarily by selling products that provide secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied.
Generally, we determine relative selling price using the prices charged to customers on a standalone basis.
Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods were not significant during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.
As of June 30, 2019, total deferred revenue was $107.4 million, and of this amount, $94.2 million is expected to be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $13.2 million is long-term and is expected to be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.
Opterna International Corp. We acquired 100% of the shares of Opterna International Corp. (Opterna) on April 15, 2019 for a preliminary purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $61.5 million.
Of the $61.5 million purchase price, $45.5 million was paid on April 15, 2019 and was funded with cash on hand.
The maximum earnout consideration is $25.0 million, but based upon a third party valuation specialist using certain assumptions in a discounted cash flow model, the estimated fair value of the earnout included in the purchase price was $16.0 million.
Opterna is an international fiber optics solutions business based in Sterling, Virginia, which designs and manufactures a range of complementary fiber connectivity, cabinet, and enclosure products used in optical networks.
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our preliminary estimate of the fair values for the acquired inventory, intangible assets, and noncontrolling interests on valuation studies performed by a third party valuation firm.


item2.txt
We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation.
We also seek to acquire businesses that we believe can help us achieve these objectives.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S. As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
Comparisons of our results between periods can be impacted by changes in the levels of channel inventory.
We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate.
To the extent that we exceed the market growth rates, we consider it to be the result of capturing market share.
We recognized $3.0 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
In 2019, we began a restructuring program to integrate Opterna and FutureLink with our existing businesses.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



