fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
During the financial closing process for the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that certain consolidated financial statement amounts were not recorded correctly in prior interim periods of 2017.
We evaluated these errors and concluded that they were not material to any of our previously issued interim financial statements and did not require restatement of the quarters.
The impact of the errors in the three months ended October 1, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $11.8 million and $2.6 million, respectively.
The impact of the errors in the nine months ended October 1, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $28.3 million and $6.9 million, respectively.
As of and during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
As of September 30, 2018, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand.
We have established liabilities for environmental and legal contingencies that are probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable, the amounts of which are currently not material.
We are, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to our business.
On July 5, 2011, our wholly-owned subsidiary, PPC Broadband, Inc. (PPC), filed an action for patent infringement against Corning Optical Communications RF LLC (Corning).
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded approximately $61.8 million, plus accrued interest.
In April 2018, Corning filed a petition for re-hearing, which was denied in May 2018.
We received a pre-tax amount of approximately $62.1 million from Corning on July 19, 2018.


item2.txt
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, and Brazilian real.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, approximately 48% and 49% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S, respectively.
The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed.
We paid approximately $7.5 million of fees related to issuing the 2028 notes, and recognized a $23.0 million loss on debt extinguishment during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 for premiums paid to the bond holders to retire the 2024 and 2023 notes and for the unamortized debt issuance costs that we wrote-off.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded approximately $61.8 million, plus accrued interest.
We received a pre-tax amount of approximately $62.1 million from Corning on July 19, 2018.
We recorded the $62.1 million of cash received as a pre-tax gain from patent litigation during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
On September 27, 2018, Corning filed a petition for certiorari review by the U.S. Supreme Court of the District Court’s decision to exercise its discretion to award PPC $23.85 million in enhanced damages based on the totality of the evidence, including a number of factual findings regarding Corning’s willful infringement and egregious conduct.
There may be additional risks that impact our business that we currently do not recognize as, or that are not currently, material to our business.
Price erosion may occur through competitors becoming more aggressive in pricing practices.
A challenging global economy could also make it difficult for our customers, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities.


