fls.txt



item1.txt
•Include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was March 31, 2019, the 90th day of our fiscal year 2019.
The three months ended April 1, 2018 included 91 days.
As of and during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
We are, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to our business.
As of March 31, 2019, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.3 million, $3.6 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) adopted the final rule under SEC Release No.
Additionally, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.
We also generate revenues from providing support and professional services.
For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied.
Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was not significant during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Estimated price adjustments recognized against our gross accounts receivable balance as of March 31, 2019 totaled $25.8 million.
As of January 1, 2019, total deferred revenue was $113.3 million, and during the three months ended March 31, 2019, $47.8 million of revenue was deferred, `and $53.3 million of revenue was recognized.
As of March 31, 2019, total deferred revenue was $107.8 million, and of this amount, $92.5 million will be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $15.3 million is long-term and will be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.


item2.txt
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S. As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.
Comparisons of our results between periods can be impacted by changes in the levels of channel inventory.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.
We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate.
We recognized $3.0 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
We do not expect to incur any more costs for this program.
•Copper prices had a $5.1 million unfavorable impact on revenues.
•Acquisitions contributed an estimated $10.7 million increase in revenues.
The decrease in volume was primarily experienced in our Enterprise solutions segment, partially offset by an increase in volume in our Industrial solutions segment.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



