fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Effective January 1, 2018, we changed our organizational structure and, as a result, now are reporting two segments.
During the financial closing process for the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that certain consolidated financial statement amounts were not recorded correctly in prior interim periods of 2017.
We evaluated these errors and concluded that they were not material to any of our previously issued interim financial statements and did not require restatement of the quarters.
The impact of the errors in the three months ended July 2, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $10.4 million and $1.3 million, respectively.
The impact of the errors in the six months ended July 2, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $16.5 million and $4.3 million, respectively.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
As of July 1, 2018, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand.
We are, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to our business.
On July 5, 2011, our wholly-owned subsidiary, PPC Broadband, Inc. (PPC), filed an action for patent infringement against Corning Optical Communications RF LLC (Corning).
In July 2015, a jury found that Corning willfully infringed both patents.
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance, without written opinion, of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded about $61.8 million, plus accrued interest.
We received a pre-tax amount of approximately $62.1 million from Corning on July 19, 2018.
We did not record any amounts in our consolidated financial statements related to this matter in the second quarter but will record the cash received as a gain in our third quarter financial statements.
Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations.
Generally, the standalone selling prices are determined based upon the prices charged to customers.


item2.txt
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, and Brazilian real.
For both the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, approximately 49% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.
We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance, without written opinion, of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded about $61.8 million, plus accrued interest.
We received a pre-tax amount of approximately $62.1 million from Corning on July 19, 2018.
We did not record any amounts in our consolidated financial statements related to this matter in the second quarter but will record the cash received as a gain in our third quarter financial statements.
There may be additional risks that impact our business that we currently do not recognize as, or that are not currently, material to our business.
A challenging global economy could also make it difficult for our customers, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities.
For example, a strengthened U.S. dollar can result in relative price increases for our products for customers outside of the U.S., which can have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations.
Furthermore, customers’ ability to invest in capital expenditures, such as our products, can depend upon proceeds from commodities, such as oil and gas markets.


