fls.txt



item1.txt
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
The three months ended April 2, 2017 included 92 days.
Effective January 1, 2018, we changed our organizational structure and, as a result, now are reporting two segments.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
We have made certain reclassifications to the 2017 Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements including for the adoption of ASU 2017-07 and for our segment change with no impact to reported net income in order to conform to the 2018 presentation.
During the financial closing process for the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that certain consolidated financial statement amounts were not recorded correctly in prior interim periods of 2017.
The impact of the errors in the first quarter of 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $6.1 million and $3.0 million, respectively.
•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.
As of and during the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017.
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
As of April 1, 2018, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand.
On July 5, 2011, our wholly-owned subsidiary, PPC Broadband, Inc. (PPC), filed an action for patent infringement against Corning Optical Communications RF LLC (Corning).
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance, without written opinion, of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded about $61.8 million as a result.
On April 12, 2018, Corning filed a petition for re-hearing.
For such arrangements, we allocate revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
The term between invoicing and when payment is due is generally not significant.
For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer.
Sales commissions for which the related service or support contract extends beyond one year are capitalized in other current or long-lived assets and recognized as expense over the related service or support period.


item2.txt
We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, and Brazilian real.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.
We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate.
Effective January 1, 2018, we changed our organizational structure and, as a result, now are reporting two segments.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
We used the net proceeds of this offering to repurchase $188.7 million of our outstanding $200.0 million 5.25% senior subordinated notes due 2024 and €143.1 million of our outstanding €200.0 million 5.5% senior subordinated notes due 2023.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, for the three month period ended April 1, 2018.


part2.txt
PPC Broadband, Inc. v. Corning Optical Communications RF, LLC - On July 5, 2011, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, PPC Broadband, Inc. (“PPC”), filed an action for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of New York against Corning Optical Communications RF LLC (“Corning”).


