fls.txt
The foregoing list should not be construed as exhaustive, and the Company disclaims any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.


item1.txt



item2.txt
Espey services include design and development to specification, build to print, design services, design studies, environmental testing services, metal fabrication, painting services, and development of automatic testing equipment.
There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by the Company, ranging from divisions of the largest electronic companies, to many small companies.
However, the concentration of our business in the rail industry, and in equipment for military applications and industrial applications, and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks.
These risks include, without limitation, requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business.
As part of our strategy, we adjust our pricing in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs.
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff.
Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts.
Management expects revenues in fiscal year 2019 to be higher than revenues during fiscal year 2018 but expects the gross profit margin to be lower in fiscal year 2019 than the gross profit margin during fiscal year 2018.
New orders received in the first six months of fiscal year 2019 were approximately $13.4 million as compared to $14.3 million of new orders received in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
The estimate of the December 31, 2018 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2019 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate.
In addition to the backlog, the Company currently has outstanding opportunities representing approximately $60.0 million in the aggregate as of January 31, 2019 for both repeat and new programs.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire any of the anticipated orders described above, many of which are subject to allocations of the United States defense spending and factors affecting the defense industry.
A significant portion of the Company’s business is the production of military and industrial electronic equipment for use by the U.S. and foreign governments and certain industrial customers.
Net sales to two significant customers represented 49.4% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2018 and net sales to three significant customers represented 63.2% of the Company's total sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2017.
Net sales to two significant customers represented 54.4% and 61.0% of the Company’s total sales for the six-month period ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We account for a contract after it has been approved by all parties to the arrangement, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is probable.
When making this determination, we consider factors such as whether two or more contracts were negotiated and executed at or near the same time, or were negotiated with an overall profit objective.
We evaluate the products or services promised in each contract at inception to determine whether the contract should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligation.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on the consideration we expect to receive for the products or services being provided under the contract.
The transaction price for each performance obligation is based on the estimated standalone selling price of the product or service underlying each performance obligation.
Transaction prices on our contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) are typically based on estimated costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
We recognize revenue using the output method based on the appraisal of results achieved and milestones reached or units delivered based on contractual shipment terms, typically shipping point.
The estimation of total cost at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
For the six months ended December 31, 2018, the decrease in net sales is primarily due to the timing of power supply shipments related to a specific military contract which had significant shipments in the prior fiscal year, offset in part by an increase in build to print sales.


item3.txt
The Company is a smaller reporting company as defined under Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 12b-2.


item4.txt
 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
 32.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


part2.txt
 Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities
 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


