Espey services include design and development to specification, build to print, design services, design studies, environmental testing services, metal fabrication, painting services, and development of automatic testing equipment.
There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by the Company, ranging from divisions of the largest electronic companies, to many small companies.
However, the concentration of our business in the rail industry, and in equipment for military applications and industrial applications, and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks.
These risks include, without limitation, fluctuating requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business.
As part of our strategy, we adjust our pricing in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs.
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff.
Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts.
Management expects revenues in fiscal year 2020 to approximate revenues during fiscal year 2019 and expects the gross profit margin to be higher in fiscal year 2020 than the gross profit margin during fiscal year 2019.
New orders received in the first three months of fiscal year 2020 were approximately $7.0 million as compared to $6.9 million of new orders received in the first three months of fiscal 2019.
The estimate of the September 30, 2019 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2020 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate.
In addition to the backlog, the Company currently has outstanding opportunities representing approximately $55 million in the aggregate as of November 5, 2019 for both repeat and new programs.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire any of the anticipated orders described above, many of which are subject to allocations of the United States defense spending and factors affecting the defense industry.
A significant portion of the Company’s business is the production of military and industrial electronic equipment for use by the U.S. and foreign governments and certain industrial customers.
Net sales to three significant customers represented 56.7% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2019.
Net sales to two significant customers represented 62.5% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended September 30, 2018.
We account for a contract after it has been approved by all parties to the arrangement, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is probable.   31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002