Espey services include design and development to specification, build to print, design services, design studies, environmental testing services, metal fabrication, painting services, and development of automatic testing equipment.
However, the concentration of our business in the rail industry, and in equipment for military applications and industrial applications and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks.
These risks include, without limitation, requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, and the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business.
Uncertainty in federal defense spending and future procurement needs supporting the rail industry continues to drive competition.
Accordingly, we adjust our pricing strategy in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs.
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff.
New orders received in the six months of fiscal year 2018 were approximately $14.3 million as compared to $10.9 million of new orders received in the first six months of fiscal year 2017.
The estimate of the December 31, 2017 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2018 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate.
In addition to the backlog, the Company currently has outstanding opportunities representing in excess of $69 million in the aggregate as of January 30, 2018 for both repeat and new programs.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire any of the anticipated orders described above, many of which are subject to allocations of the United States defense spending and factors affecting the defense industry.
Net sales to three significant customers represented 63.2% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2017 and net sales to two significant customers represented 38.4% of the Company's total sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2016.
Net sales to two significant customers represented 61.0% and 42.6% of the Company’s total sales for the six-month periods ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Generally revenues on long-term fixed-price contracts are recorded on a percentage of completion basis using units of delivery as the measurement basis for progress toward completion.
Percentage of completion accounting requires judgment relative to expected sales, estimating costs and making assumptions related to technical issues and delivery schedules.
The estimation of cost at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
For the three and six months ended December 31, 2017, the increase in net sales is primarily due to an increase in power supply sales resulting from the commencement of shipments on a new significant military contract in the current fiscal year. 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002