However, the concentration of our business in the rail industry, and in equipment for military applications and industrial applications, and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks.
These risks include, without limitation, requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business.
As part of our strategy, we adjust our pricing in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs.
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff.
Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts.
Management expects revenues in fiscal year 2019 to be higher than revenues during fiscal year 2018, but expects the gross profit margin to be lower in fiscal year 2019 as compared to the gross profit margin during fiscal year 2018.
New orders received in the first nine months of fiscal year 2019 were approximately $22.2 million as compared to $28.6 million of new orders received in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The estimate of the March 31, 2019 backlog to be shipped in fiscal year 2019 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate.
In addition to the backlog, the Company currently has outstanding opportunities representing approximately $58 million in the aggregate as of May 1, 2019 for both repeat and new programs.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company will acquire any of the anticipated orders described above, many of which are subject to allocations of the United States defense spending and factors affecting the defense industry.
A significant portion of the Company’s business is the production of military and industrial electronic equipment for use by the U.S. and foreign governments and certain industrial customers.
Net sales to two significant customers represented 47.2% and 50.6% of the Company’s total sales for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Net sales to three significant customers represented 58.1% of the Company’s total sales for the nine-month period ended March 31, 2019 and net sales to two significant customers represented 58.6% of the Company's total sales for the nine-month period ended March 31, 2018.
We account for a contract after it has been approved by all parties to the arrangement, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is probable.
We evaluate the products or services promised in each contract at inception to determine whether the contract should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligation.
The transaction price for each performance obligation is based on the estimated standalone selling price of the product or service underlying each performance obligation. 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002