fls.txt



item1.txt
In connection with the sale of certain assets of our Enterprise Security business as disclosed in Basis of presentation below, effective November 4, 2019, we changed our corporate name from Symantec Corporation to NortonLifeLock Inc. On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement with Broadcom Inc. (Broadcom) under which Broadcom agreed to purchase certain of our Enterprise Security assets and assume certain liabilities for a purchase price of $10.7 billion (the Broadcom sale).
The divestiture of our Enterprise Security business allows us to shift our operational focus to our consumer business and represents a strategic shift in our operations.
Results of discontinued operations include all revenues and expenses directly derived from the Enterprise Security business, with the exception of revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, and general corporate overhead which were previously allocated to the Enterprise Security segment but are not allocated to discontinued operations.
The assets acquired and liabilities to be sold to Broadcom, as specified in the August 8, 2019 definitive agreement, were classified as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, subject to changes set forth in the agreement.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
The results of operations for the six months ended October 4, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of stand-alone selling price for performance obligations, valuation of business combinations including acquired intangible assets and goodwill, loss contingencies, valuation of stock-based compensation, and the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions.
There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended October 4, 2019, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 5, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance on lease accounting which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and also requires disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
Most prominent among the changes in the standard is the recognition of right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases.
Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
On March 30, 2019, the first day of our fiscal 2020, we adopted the new guidance using the alternative modified retrospective transition method under which we continue to apply the legacy lease accounting guidance, including its disclosure requirements, in comparative periods prior to fiscal 2020.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard that allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases.
The adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities of $182 million and $209 million, respectively, as of March 30, 2019 related to our operating leases.
The adoption of the standard also resulted in elimination of deferred rent liabilities of $17 million, as of March 30, 2019, which are now recorded as a reduction of the ROU assets.


item2.txt
The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act).
On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement with Broadcom Inc. (Broadcom) under which Broadcom agreed to purchase certain of our Enterprise Security assets and assume certain liabilities for a purchase price of $10.7 billion (the Broadcom sale).
Revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, are now included in our remaining reportable segment.
•Net income and net income per share increased primarily due to higher income from both our continuing operations and discontinued operations, net of taxes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
For the last several years, we have experienced transitions in our business with the integration of two major acquisitions, the completion of several smaller acquisitions, and the divestiture of two businesses, two of which comprised substantially whole operating segments.
Transitions of this type can be disruptive, result in the loss of focus and employee morale and make the execution of business strategies more difficult.
Our endpoint security solution has historically relied upon certain threat analytics software engines and other software (the Engine-Related Services) that have been developed and provided by engineering teams that have transferred to Broadcom as part of the Broadcom sale.
The technology, including source code, at issue is shared, and pursuant to the terms of the Broadcom sale, we retain rights to use, modify, enhance and create derivative works from such technology.
As a result, we are dependent on Broadcom for services and technology that are critical to our business, and if Broadcom fails to deliver these Engine-Related Services it would result in significant business disruption, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.
The resource constraints as a result of our focus on completing the transaction, which included the loss of employees, could have a continuing impact on the execution of our business strategy and our overall operating results.
Additionally, in connection with the divestiture, our Board of Directors committed to returning the proceeds of the Broadcom sale to stockholders in the form of a capital return program, including a special dividend of $12 per share and the August 2019 increase of our existing share repurchase authorization from $500 million to $1.6 billion.
On November 5, 2019, in connection with the strategic decision to divest our enterprise business, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the November 2019 Plan).
Actions under this plan will include the reduction of our workforce by approximately 3,100 employees, as well as asset impairments, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities.


