fls.txt
The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).


item1.txt
Symantec Corporation (“Symantec,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” refer to Symantec Corporation and all of its subsidiaries) is a global leader in cybersecurity.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
As a result of the new guidance, we now recognize excess tax benefits or deficiencies in the period in which the award vests.
There have been no other material changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended December 29, 2017, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes.
During the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, the conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive due to a loss from continuing operations.
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements (the “Fiscal 2017 Plan”).
As of December 29, 2017, liabilities for excess facility obligations at several locations around the world are expected to be paid throughout the respective lease terms, the longest of which extends through fiscal 2022.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 was based on the historic statutory tax rate of 35%.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences.


item2.txt
The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We operate our business on a global civilian cyber intelligence threat network and track a vast number of threats across the Internet from hundreds of millions of mobile devices, endpoints, and servers across the globe.
On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions to DigiCert Parent Inc. (“DigiCert”) for an aggregate consideration of $1.1 billion, consisting of approximately $960 million in cash and shares of common stock representing an approximate 28% interest in the outstanding common stock of DigiCert valued at $160 million as of the transaction date.
See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture.
Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact.
With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.
The following is an overview of key financial metrics in millions and the respective metrics as a percentage of revenues.
Our percentage of revenues from the Americas for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 increased compared to prior year periods primarily as a result of LifeLock sales which are entirely U.S.-based.
The amounts below are presented in millions and the percentages are a percentage of revenues.
Our cost of revenues increased $174 million, or 29%, primarily due to cost of revenues related to our acquired Blue Coat and LifeLock products, including $83 million of increased amortization of acquired intangible assets and $52 million of increased technical support costs primarily driven by the LifeLock acquisition.
The following amounts are in millions and the percentages are a percentage of revenues.
Research and development expense increased $21 million, or 10%, primarily due to an increase of $24 million in stock-based compensation expense primarily related to the equity awards assumed or granted in connection with our acquisitions.
Amortization of intangible assets increased $9 million primarily due to the intangible assets acquired in the LifeLock acquisition.
Sales and marketing expense increased $233 million, or 23%, primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $143 million in advertising and promotional expense, largely related to LifeLock, $60 million in stock-based compensation expense, primarily from awards assumed in acquisitions, and $36 million in other compensation and benefits expense.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) defines the term “disclosure controls and procedures” to mean a company’s controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


