Item 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). All statements in this report, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statements of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products or services, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are based upon reasonable assumptions at the time made, there can be no assurance that any such expectations or any forward-looking statement will prove to be correct. Our actual results will vary, and may vary materially, from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which we cannot predict with accuracy and some of which we might not anticipate, including, without limitation, product recalls and product liability claims; infringement of our technology or assertion that our technology infringes the rights of other parties; termination of supplier relationships, or failure of suppliers to perform; inability to successfully manage growth; delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or the failure to maintain such approvals; concentration of our revenue among a few customers, products or procedures; development of new products and technology that could render our products obsolete; market acceptance of new products; introduction of products in a timely fashion; price and product competition, availability of labor and materials, cost increases, and fluctuations in and obsolescence of inventory; volatility of the market price of our common stock; foreign currency fluctuations; changes in key personnel; work stoppage or transportation risks; integration of business acquisitions; and other factors referred to in our reports filed with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Additional factors that may have a direct bearing on our operating results are discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



BUSINESS OVERVIEW 



ClearOne is a global Company that designs, develops and sells conferencing, collaboration, and AV networking solutions for voice and visual communications. The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer a high level of functionality, reliability and scalability. We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel. We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking. We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development. 





In August 2019, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued patent number 10,397,697 to ClearOne. This patent, entitled “Band-Limited Beamforming Microphone Array,” describes a method, among other things, of making or using a band-limited beamforming microphone array by augmenting beamformed audio signals with additional audio signals that are not included in the beamforming process. The microphones that generate these additional signals are referred to as non-beamforming microphones. The invention significantly extends design flexibility because the augmented beamforming technology enables a broad range of design choices from larger, higher performance, higher cost beamforming arrays, to smaller beamforming arrays with good performance for less demanding environments at a lower cost.  





Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 





With COLLABORATE Space, users can work together one-on-one, or in groups of hundreds, with integrated file sharing, searchable archives, and user presence information. They can connect with colleagues and contacts, via audio and video, with the most intuitive collaboration tools. Users can meet immediately or schedule a meeting and access a full suite of collaboration features, including file sharing, whiteboarding, annotation, chat, and meeting minutes. 



During the first nine months of 2019, we continued our efforts, primarily through litigation, to stop the infringement of our strategic patents. 



On August 5, 2019, the Honorable Edmond E. Chang of the Northern District of Illinois issued a preliminary injunction order in the Company’s ongoing litigation with Shure Incorporated, Case No. 17-cv-3087. In that litigation, ClearOne asserts that Shure’s MXA910 Ceiling Array Microphone, which competes with ClearOne’s beamforming microphone array products, infringes certain of ClearOne’s patents. The August 5 order held that ClearOne had "met its burden of demonstrating entitlement to the extraordinary relief of a preliminary injunction" on U.S. Patent No. 9,813,806 (the “Graham Patent”). The Court held that ClearOne established that "Shure is likely infringing the ’806 Patent and [that Shure] has not raised a substantial question of the patent’s validity.” The injunction order prohibits Shure from “manufacturing, marketing, and selling the MXA910 to be used in its drop-ceiling mounting configuration, including marketing and selling the MXA910 in a way that encourages or allows integrators to install it in a drop-ceiling mounting configuration." 



We also continued our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path. 



Overall revenue declined in the third quarter of 2019 when compared to the third quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except microphones. We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories. Our gross profit margin decreased from 45% in the third quarter of 2018 to 42% during the third quarter of 2019. Net loss decreased from $10.1 million in the third quarter of 2018 to $2.0 million in the third quarter of 2019. The net loss in the third quarter of 2018 included about $7.8 million in tax expenses due to recording of valuation allowance as we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets were not realizable primarily due to the Company's continuing pre-tax losses.  



Overall revenue declined in the first nine months of 2019 when compared to same period in 2018, with declines seen in all product categories, except video. We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents — which is improperly forcing the Company to compete against its own patented technology — is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories. We believe the revenue decline in video products was caused partially by increased competition in the space as well as due to reduced attention from our partners caused by the alternatives made available through infringement of our patents. Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during the first nine months of 2019 from 49% during the same nine months in 2018. Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to increased material costs and reduction of higher margin professional audio conferencing products in the revenue mix. Net loss during the first nine months of 2019 decreased to $6.4 million from $14.2 million during the same period in 2018. The net loss in 2018 included about $7.8 million in tax expenses due to recording of a valuation allowance as we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets were not realizable primarily due to the Company's continuing pre-tax losses.  



We believe the recent decision by the U.S. District Court in August granting our request for a preliminary injunction to prevent Shure from manufacturing, marketing, and selling its competing ceiling microphone array in an infringing configuration is an incredibly valuable ruling for ClearOne and its business. The decision validates the strength and importance of ClearOne’s intellectual property rights, recognizes ClearOne’s innovations in this space, and stops Shure from further infringing the Graham patent pending a full trial. Although there can be no assurance of any outcome of a full trial, we believe this ruling will help pave the way for ClearOne’s recovery from the immense harm inflicted by Shure's infringement of our valuable patents. 





Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Industry conditions 



We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players. The industry is also characterized by venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies willing to fund cumulative cash losses in order to gain market share and achieve certain non-financial goals. 



Economic conditions, challenges and risks 



The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology. Our competitors vary within each product category. Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues. Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products. Despite our strong leadership position in the installed professional audio conferencing market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market due to higher margins. 



Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth. We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds. We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future. We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware-based video conferencing systems to software-based video conferencing applications. 



We derive a major portion of our revenue (approximately 47% for the year ended December 31, 2018) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future. Most of our revenue from outside the U.S. is billed in U.S. dollars and is not exposed to any significant currency risk. However, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk if the U.S. dollar is strong against other currencies as it will make U.S. Dollar denominated prices of our products less competitive. 



A detailed discussion of our results of operations follows below. 





Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Results of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 







Revenue 



Our revenue decreased to $6.0 million in 2019-Q3 compared to $6.7 million in 2018-Q3. The highest decline was seen in the video category with a 21.5% decline followed by audio conferencing with a 15% decline. Revenue from microphones grew by 3% due to modest growth in sales of ceiling mics and beamforming microphones. The decline in the audio conferencing category was due to a decline in the professional installed audio conferencing and personal conferencing. The decline in the video category was due to a decline in both network media streaming and video conferencing. We believe that the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and the microphone categories. The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 51% in 2018-Q3 to 49% in 2019-Q3. The share of microphones increased from 32% to 37%. The share of video products in the revenue mix dropped slightly to 15% from 17%. During 2019-Q3 revenue declined in the USA, Canada, Australia, China, and Northern Europe offset by revenue increases in Japan, South Korea, Middle East, India, and Southern Europe. The Asia Pacific, including the Middle East, increased by 14%, Europe and Africa declined by 9% and the Americas declined by 21%. 



Our revenue decreased to $18.7 million in 2019 YTD compared to $20.9 million in 2018 YTD. The highest decline was seen in the audio conferencing category with a 20% decline followed by microphones with a 2% decline. Revenue from video products grew by a modest 3% mainly due to growth in revenue from sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras and cloud-based videoconferencing services. The decline in the audio conferencing category was due to a decline in all subcategories including professional installed audio conferencing, personal conferencing and tabletop conferencing. The decline in the microphones category was due to a decline in beamforming microphones and ceiling microphones offset by an increase in revenue from wireless mics. The on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and microphone categories. The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 51% in 2018 YTD to 46% in 2019 YTD. The share of microphones increased from 32% to 35%. The share of video products in the revenue mix increased from 17% to 20%. During 2019-YTD revenue declined in all regions except the Middle East, India, South Korea, and Southern Europe. The decline was more pronounced in Canada, China, Australia, and Northern Europe. The Asia Pacific, including the Middle East increased by 3%, Europe and Africa declined by 12% and the Americas declined by 16%. 



We believe, although there can be no assurance, that we will return to a growth path if we are able to successfully implement our strategic initiatives focused on product innovation, cost reduction and defense of our intellectual property. 





Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Costs of Goods Sold and Gross Profit 



Cost of goods sold includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the repackaging of our products, our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses. 



Our gross profit for 2019-Q3 was approximately $2.5 million or 42% compared to approximately $3.0 million, or 45%, for 2018-Q3. Gross Profit margin decreased mainly due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs. 



Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during 2019 YTD from 49% during 2018 YTD. The gross profit margin decreased primarily due to increased material costs and the reduction of higher-margin professional audio conferencing products in the revenue mix. 



Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional installed audio-conferencing products. We hold long-term inventory and if we are unable to sell our long-term inventory, our profitability might be affected by inventory write-offs and price mark-downs. Our long-term inventory includes approximately $1.6 million of wireless microphone-related finished goods and assemblies, $1.8 million of Converge Pro and Beamforming microphone array products, $0.8 million of network media streaming products and about $1.9 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products. Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell our long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory. 



Operating Expenses 























Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Other income (expense), net 



Other income (expense), net, includes interest income, interest expense, and foreign currency changes. Other income increased to $142,000 in 2019-Q3 compared to $5,000 in 2018-Q3. The increase was mainly due to the recording of realized gain on sale of marketable securities of $83,000 in 2019-Q3. Other income increased to $0.2 million from $0.1 million in 2018 YTD. The increase was mainly due to the increase in realized gain on sale of marketable securities.  



Provision for income taxes 



During 2019 YTD, we did not recognize any benefit from the losses incurred due to setting up of full valuation allowance. Income tax expense for 2019-Q3 and 2019 YTD represents current income tax expense recorded for jurisdictions outside the United States. During 2018-Q3 the Company recorded discrete tax expense of $6.5 million, due primarily to the recording of a full valuation allowance on the Company’s net deferred tax assets. 



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 



As of September 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $2.0 million compared to $11.2 million as of December 31, 2018. Our working capital was $22.5 million and $28.4 million as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 



Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $6.6 million in 2019 YTD, an increase of cash used of approximately $3.0 million from $3.6 million of cash used in operating activities in 2018 YTD. The increase in cash used was primarily due to a decrease in non-cash charges of $3.4 million and increase in cash outflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $7.3 million which includes $4.5 million towards payment of a bond for securing the preliminary injunction in our litigation to stop the infringement of our patents, partially offset by a decrease in net loss by $7.7 million. 



Net cash used in investing activities was $2.6 million for 2019 YTD compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $1.3 million during the 2018 YTD, an increase in cash used of $3.9 million. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to a decrease in net cash inflows from marketable securities of approximately $4.3 million partially offset by a decrease in capitalized patent defense costs by $0.2 million. 



Capitalization of patent defense costs. We capitalize external legal costs incurred in the defense of our patents when we believe that a significant, discernible increase in value will result from the defense and a successful outcome of the legal action is probable. When we capitalize patent defense costs we amortize the costs over the remaining estimated useful life of the patent, which is 15 to 17 years. During 2019 YTD we spent $3.4 million on legal costs related to the defense of our patents and capitalized the entire amount. 



We are currently pursuing all available legal remedies to defend our strategic patents from infringement. We have already spent approximately $11.9 million from 2016 through September 30, 2019 towards this litigation and may be required to spend more to continue our legal defense. We believe the recent decision by the U.S. District Court in August granting our request for a preliminary injunction to prevent our competitor from manufacturing, marketing, and selling its competing ceiling microphone array in an infringing configuration is an incredibly valuable ruling for ClearOne and its business. We believe that the decision validates the strength and importance of ClearOne’s intellectual property rights, recognizes ClearOne’s innovations in this space, and stops our competitor from further infringing our Graham patent (U.S. Patent No.9,813,806) pending a full trial. We believe this ruling will help pave way for ClearOne’s recovery from the immense harm inflicted by our competitor's infringement of our valuable patents. 



We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing our share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures. In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels. We also believe that the measures taken by us will yield higher revenues in the future. We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans. We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs. In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth. 



At September 30, 2019, we had open purchase orders of approximately $1.0 million for purchase of inventory. 



At September 30, 2019, we had inventory totaling $18.8 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $7.1 million. This compares to total inventories of $22.2 million and non-current inventory of $9.0 million as of December 31, 2018. 



OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 



We have no off-balance-sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial conditions, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources, results of operations or liquidity. 





Table of Contents  



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 



Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial position are based upon our unaudited consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. We believe certain of our accounting policies are critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations. Except with respect to our revenue recognition practices included in Note 1. “Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, there have been no changes to the critical accounting policies as explained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 





Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 





