ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 



An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of June 30, 2018 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer. Based upon this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable assurance level as of June 30, 2018 due to the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as described below. 



Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner. 



To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls. The remediation plan will include an assessment of personnel levels and responsibilities, additional training of financial reporting personnel and ability to handle new requirements and projects on a timely basis with respect to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and public company reporting requirements and timelines. The material weakness will be fully remediated when, in the opinion of management, the control processes have been operating for a sufficient period of time to provide reasonable assurance as to their effectiveness. The remediation and ultimate resolution of the material weakness will be reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 



Except as noted above, there has been no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2018, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 



Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 



Not applicable. 



Item 5. OTHER INFORMATION 



Not applicable. 





Table of Contents  



Item 6. EXHIBITS 







Table of Contents  



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 





