Item 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). All statements in this report, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statements of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products or services, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are based upon reasonable assumptions at the time made, there can be no assurance that any such expectations or any forward-looking statement will prove to be correct. Our actual results will vary, and may vary materially, from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which we cannot predict with accuracy and some of which we might not anticipate, including, without limitation, product recalls and product liability claims; infringement of our technology or assertion that our technology infringes the rights of other parties; termination of supplier relationships, or failure of suppliers to perform; inability to successfully manage growth; delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or the failure to maintain such approvals; concentration of our revenue among a few customers, products or procedures; development of new products and technology that could render our products obsolete; market acceptance of new products; introduction of products in a timely fashion; price and product competition, availability of labor and materials, cost increases, and fluctuations in and obsolescence of inventory; volatility of the market price of our common stock; foreign currency fluctuations; changes in key personnel; work stoppage or transportation risks; integration of business acquisitions; and other factors referred to in our reports filed with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Additional factors that may have a direct bearing on our operating results are discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



BUSINESS OVERVIEW 



ClearOne is a global Company that designs, develops and sells conferencing, collaboration, and AV networking solutions for voice and visual communications. The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer a high level of functionality, reliability and scalability. We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel. We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking. We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development. 





We also introduced COLLABORATE® Space to our growing family of collaboration solutions. It’s a suite that unifies messaging, calls and meetings and will energize workflows and increase productivity for everyone involved in the enterprise. Designed as a persistent, user-friendly collaboration suite, COLLABORATE Space contains many powerful UCC capabilities, as well as the seamless ability to make calls outside the network.  





Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



With COLLABORATE Space, users can work together one-on-one, or in groups of hundreds, with integrated file sharing, searchable archives, and user presence information. They can connect with colleagues and contacts, via audio and video, with the most intuitive collaboration tools. Users can meet immediately or schedule a meeting and access a full suite of collaboration features, including file sharing, whiteboarding, annotation, chat, and meeting minutes. 



During the first six months of 2019, we continued our serious litigation efforts to stop infringement of our strategic patents. We also continued our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path. 



Overall revenue declined in the second quarter of 2019 when compared to the second quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video. We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories. Our gross profit margin decreased marginally to 46% during the second quarter of 2019 from 47% for the second quarter of 2018. Net loss decreased marginally from $2.2 million in the second quarter of 2018 to $2.1 million in the second quarter of 2019. The decrease in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced operating expenses offset by reduced gross profit and tax benefit.  



Overall revenue declined in the first six months of 2019 when compared to same period in 2018, with declines seen in all product categories, except video. We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories. We are inappropriately being forced to compete against our own patented technology. We believe the revenue decline in video products was caused partially by increased competition in the space as well as due to reduced attention from our partners caused by the alternatives made available through infringement of our patents. Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during the first six months of 2019 from 52% during the same six months in 2018. Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to increased material costs and reduction of higher margin professional audio conferencing products in the revenue mix. Net loss during the first six months of 2019 increased to $4.4 million from $4.0 million during the same period in 2018. The increase in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced tax benefit and gross profit partially offset by reduced operating expenses. 



We believe the recent decision by the U.S. District Court in August granting our request for a preliminary injunction to prevent our competitor from manufacturing, marketing, and selling its competing ceiling microphone array in an infringing configuration is an incredibly valuable ruling for ClearOne and its business. The decision validates the strength and importance of ClearOne’s intellectual property rights, recognizes ClearOne’s innovations in this space, and stops our competitor from further infringing our Graham patent (U.S. Patent No.9,813,806) pending a full trial. Although there can be no assurance of any outcome of a full trial, we believe this ruling will help pave way for CleaOne’s recovery from the immense harm inflicted by our competitor's infringement of our valuable patents. 



Industry conditions 



We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players. The industry is also characterized by venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies willing to fund cumulative cash losses in order to gain market share and achieve certain non-financial goals. 



Economic conditions, challenges and risks 



The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology. Our competitors vary within each product category. Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues. Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products. Despite our strong leadership position in the installed professional audio conferencing market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market due to higher margins. 



Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth. We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds. We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future. We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware-based video conferencing systems to software-based video conferencing applications. 



We derive a major portion of our revenue (approximately 47% for the year ended December 31, 2018) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future. Most of our revenue from outside the U.S. is billed in U.S. dollars and is not exposed to any significant currency risk. However, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk if the U.S. dollar is strong against other currencies as it will make U.S. Dollar denominated prices of our products less competitive. 



A detailed discussion of our results of operations follows below. 





Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Results of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 







Revenue 



Our revenue decreased to $6.4 million in 2019-Q2 compared to $7.0 million in 2018-Q2. The highest decline was seen in the audio conferencing category with a 20% decline followed by microphones with a marginal 1% decline. Revenue from video products grew by 16% on the back of growth in sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras and cloud-based videoconferencing services. The decline in the audio conferencing category was due to a decline in all subcategories including professional installed audio conferencing, personal conferencing and tabletop conferencing. The decline in microphones category was due to a decline in beamforming microphones offset by increase in revenue from wireless mics. The on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and microphones categories. The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 52% in 2018-Q2 to 45% in 2019-Q2. The share of microphones increased from 32% to 35%. Share of video products in the revenue mix increased from 16% to 20%. During 2019-Q2 revenue declined in the USA, Canada, Australia, Japan, China and Northern Europe offset by revenue increases in the Middle East, India, South Asia, South Korea and Central Europe and Southern Europe. Asia Pacific, including the Middle East, increased by 6%, Europe and Africa declined by 8% and the Americas declined by 15%. 



Our revenue decreased to $12.7 million in 2019-H1 compared to $14.3 million in 2018-H1. The highest decline was seen in audio conferencing category with 23% decline followed by microphones with 5% decline. Revenue from video products grew by 14% on the back of growth in sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras, cloud-based videoconferencing services and network media streaming products. The decline in audio conferencing category was due to a decline in all subcategories including professional installed audio conferencing, personal conferencing and tabletop conferencing. The decline in microphones category was due to a decline in beamforming microphones and ceiling microphones offset by increase in revenue from wireless mics. The on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and microphones categories. The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 51% in 2018-H1 to 44% in 2019-H1. The share of microphones increased from 32% to 34%. Share of video products in the revenue mix increased from 17% to 22%. During 2019-H1 revenue declined in all regions except the Middle East, India, South Asia and Central Europe and Southern Europe. The decline was more pronounced in Canada, Australia, Japan and Northern Europe. Asia Pacific, including the Middle East declined by 2%, Europe and Africa declined by 14% and Americas declined by 14%. 



We believe, although there can be no assurance, that we will return to a growth path if we are able to successfully implement our strategic initiatives focused on product innovation, cost reduction and defense of our intellectual property. 





Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Costs of Goods Sold and Gross Profit 



Cost of goods sold includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the repackaging of our products, our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses. 



Our gross profit for 2019-Q2 was approximately $2.9 million or 46% compared to approximately $3.3 million, or 47%, for 2018-Q2. 



Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during 2019-H1 from 52% during 2018-H1. Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to increased material costs and reduction of higher margin professional audio conferencing products in the revenue mix. 



Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional installed audio-conferencing products. We hold long-term inventory and if we are unable to sell our long-term inventory, our profitability might be affected by inventory write-offs and price mark-downs. Our long-term inventory includes approximately $2.0 million of wireless microphone-related finished goods and assemblies, $1.6 million of Converge Pro 2 products and about $1.7 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products. Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell these long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory. 



Operating Expenses 























Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Other income (expense), net 



Other income (expense), net, includes interest income, interest expense, and foreign currency changes. It remained almost the same in 2019-Q2 and 2018-Q2. It increased marginally in 2019-H1 compared to 2018-H1. 



Provision for income taxes 



During 2019-H1, we did not recognize any benefit from the losses incurred due to setting up of full valuation allowance. Income tax expense for 2019-Q2 and 2019-H1 represents income tax expense recorded for jurisdictions outside the United States. During 2018-H1 we accrued income taxes at the forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 26.8%. 



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 



As of June 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $2.4 million compared to $11.2 million as of December 31, 2018. Our working capital was $20.4 million and $28.4 million as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 



Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $1.4 million in 2019-H1, a decrease of cash used of approximately $0.5 million from $1.9 million of cash used in operating activities in 2018-H1. The decrease in cash used was primarily due to an increase in non-cash charges of $1.2 million partially offset by increase in cash outflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $0.3 million and an increase in net loss by $0.5 million. 



Net cash used by investing activities was $7.5 million for 2019-H1 compared to net cash flows provided by investing activities of $1.1 million during the 2018-H1, an increase in cash used of $8.6 million. The increase was primarily due to an increase in net purchases of marketable securities of approximately $8.8 million partially offset by decrease in capitalized patent defense costs by $0.2 million. 



Capitalization of patent defense costs. We capitalize external legal costs incurred in the defense of our patents when we believe that a significant, discernible increase in value will result from the defense and a successful outcome of the legal action is probable. When we capitalize patent defense costs we amortize the costs over the remaining estimated useful life of the patent, which is 15 to 17 years. During 2019-Q2 we spent $1.1 million of legal costs related to the defense of our patents and capitalized the entire amount. 



We are currently pursuing all available legal remedies to defend our strategic patents from infringement. We have already spent about $10.8 million from 2016 through June 30, 2019 towards this litigation and may be required to spend more to continue our legal defense. We believe the recent decision by the U.S. District Court in August granting our request for a preliminary injunction to prevent our competitor from manufacturing, marketing, and selling its competing ceiling microphone array in an infringing configuration is an incredibly valuable ruling for ClearOne and its business. The decision validates the strength and importance of ClearOne’s intellectual property rights, recognizes ClearOne’s innovations in this space, and stops our competitor from further infringing our Graham patent (U.S. Patent No.9,813,806) pending a full trial. We believe this ruling will help pave way for ClearOne’s recovery from the immense harm inflicted by our competitor's infringement of our valuable patents. 



We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing our share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures. In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels. We also believe that the measures taken by us will yield higher revenues in the future. We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans. We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs. In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth. 



At June 30, 2019, we had open purchase orders of approximately $1.5 million, primarily related to inventory purchases. 



At June 30, 2019, we had inventory totaling $20.0 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $7.7 million. This compares to total inventories of $22.2 million and non-current inventory of $9.0 million as of December 31, 2018. 



OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 



We have no off-balance-sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial conditions, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources, results of operations or liquidity. 





Table of Contents  



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 



Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial position are based upon our unaudited consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. We believe certain of our accounting policies are critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations. Except with respect to our revenue recognition practices included in Note 1. “Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, there have been no changes to the critical accounting policies as explained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 





Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 





