We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.
NM - Not meaningful; we recognized a net loss for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for impact of this adoption on our operating results for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we had strong performance across the business and delivered strong revenue growth, margins and operating cash flow.
Our product revenue reflected growth in Infrastructure Platforms, Applications and Security, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
Notwithstanding the third quarter fiscal 2019 results, we continue to operate in a challenging and highly competitive environment.
While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.
Within total revenue, product revenue increased by 4% and service revenue increased by 2%.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, on October 28, 2018, we completed the sale of our SPVSS business.
Total gross margin increased by 0.8 percentage points, driven by productivity improvements partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing and mix.
As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses decreased by 0.4 percentage points.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $534 million, driven in large part by product revenue growth in the United States.
EMEA revenue increased by $75 million, led by a product revenue growth in the United Kingdom.
Revenue in our APJC segment decreased by $114 million, led by a product revenue decline in China.
The “BRICM” countries experienced a product revenue decline of 15% in the aggregate, driven by decreased product revenue in the emerging countries of Russia, China, India, Mexico and Brazil of 25%, 21%, 10%, 6% and 5%, respectively.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced product revenue growth in the public sector, enterprise and commercial markets, partially offset by a product revenue decline in the service provider market.
From a product category perspective, total product revenue, not including SPVSS products in the prior year period, increased 7% year over year.
The increase was driven by a 5% product revenue increase in Infrastructure Platforms, solid product revenue growth in Applications of 9%, and strong growth in Security of 21%.
Total revenue increased 5%, with product revenue increasing 7% and service revenue increasing 2%.
General and administrative expenses decreased due to a benefit from the $400 million litigation settlement with Arista in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The net loss and net loss per share in the prior year period were driven by the one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, foreign withholding taxes, and re-measurement of net deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 28, 2018, as updated as applicable in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements herein, describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
ASC 606 supersedes nearly all U.S. GAAP on revenue recognition and eliminated industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
ASC 606 primarily impacted our revenue recognition for software arrangements and sales to two-tier distributors.
We enter into contracts with customers that can include various combinations of products and services which are generally distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
As a result, our contracts may contain multiple performance obligations.
We determine whether arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether our commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract.
We classify our hardware, perpetual software licenses, and SaaS as distinct performance obligations.
Term software licenses represent multiple obligations, which include software licenses and software maintenance.
We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised goods or services in a contract with a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
Transfer of control occurs once the customer has the contractual right to use the product, generally upon shipment or once delivery and risk of loss has transferred to the customer.
Transfer of control can also occur over time for software maintenance and services as the customer receives the benefit over the contract term.
Term software licenses include multiple performance obligations where the term licenses are recognized upfront upon transfer of control, with the associated software maintenance revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as services and software updates are provided.
On our product sales, we record consideration from shipping and handling on a gross basis within net product sales.
Revenue is allocated among these performance obligations in a manner that reflects the consideration that we expect to be entitled to for the promised goods or services based on standalone selling prices (SSP).
SSP is estimated for each distinct performance obligation and judgment may be required in their determination.
The best evidence of SSP is the observable price of a product or service when we sell the goods separately in similar circumstances and to similar customers.
In instances where SSP is not directly observable, we determine SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs.
We apply judgment in determining the transaction price as we may be required to estimate variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize.
Variable consideration includes various rebate, cooperative marketing, and other incentive programs that we offer to our distributors, partners and customers.
See Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details.
The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts.
We also consider the concentration of receivables outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances for doubtful accounts.
We regularly review the adequacy of the credit allowances determined either on an individual or a collective basis.
When evaluating the financing receivables on an individual basis, we consider historical experience, credit quality and age of receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer’s ability to pay.
Determining expected default frequency rates and loss factors associated with internal credit risk ratings, as well as assessing factors such as economic conditions, concentration of risk, and correlation, are complex and subjective.
Both accounts receivable and financing receivables are charged off at the point when they are considered uncollectible.
A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates.
The reserve for future sales returns as of April 27, 2019 and July 28, 2018 was $82 million and $123 million, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable and revenue.
Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories, determined primarily by future demand forecasts.
Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales.
At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.
Our provision for inventory was $55 million and $42 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $65 million and $77 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We regularly evaluate our exposure for inventory write-downs and the adequacy of our liability for purchase commitments.
These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States.
Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty.
Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment.
Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities.
We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our available-for-sale debt investments below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary.
The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold.
If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary.
An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security.
If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described in the prior sentence, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings.
If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit loss, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings, and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI).
In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information, including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral.
We hold non-marketable equity and other investments, some of which are in the startup or development stages.
As of April 27, 2019, our non-marketable equity and other investments were $1.3 billion, compared with $1.1 billion as of July 28, 2018, and were included in other assets.
Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques.
Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date, which in most cases results in measuring goodwill as an excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including contingent consideration.
We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit.
The assessment of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the new accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets.
The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as acquired technology under development, is determined at acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value.
The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate.
We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets.
We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.
If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset.
There were no impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and $1 million of such impairment charges for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
This benefit may be reduced or eliminated in future legislation.
If such legislation is enacted, we will record the impact of the legislation in the quarter of enactment.
The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties.
Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an international association comprised of 36 countries, including the United States, has made changes to numerous long-standing tax principles.
Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
Product revenue increased by 4% and service revenue increased by 2%.
Total revenue reflected growth in the Americas and EMEA segments while revenue declined in the APJC segment.
Product revenue for the emerging countries of BRICM, in the aggregate, experienced a 15% product revenue decline, with decreases across each of these countries.
Product revenue increased by 7% and service revenue increased by 2%.
Our total revenue reflected growth across each of our geographic segments.
Product revenue for the emerging countries of BRICM, in the aggregate, experienced 5% product revenue growth, with increases in Mexico, India, and Brazil, partially offset by a decrease in China.
Product revenue in Russia was flat.
Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
Product revenue in the Americas segment increased by 10%, led by growth in the enterprise, public sector and commercial markets, partially offset by a decline in the service provider market.
From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 12% in the United States while product revenue in Canada, Mexico and Brazil decreased by 8%, 6% and 5%, respectively.
The increase in product revenue in the Americas segment was led by growth in the enterprise, public sector and commercial markets.
These increases were partially offset by a product revenue decline in the service provider market.
From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 9% in the United States, 32% in Mexico, 7% in Canada and 3% in Brazil.
Product revenue in the EMEA segment increased by 2%, with growth in the public sector and enterprise markets partially offset by declines in the service provider and commercial markets.
From a country perspective, product revenue growth was driven by a 13% increase in the United Kingdom.
Product revenue from emerging countries within EMEA increased by 10% while product revenue for the remainder of the EMEA segment, which primarily consists of countries in Western Europe, was flat.
Product revenue in the EMEA segment increased by 7%, with growth in the public sector and enterprise markets partially offset by declines in the service provider and commercial markets.
Product revenue from emerging countries within EMEA increased by 7%, and product revenue for the remainder of the EMEA segment also increased by 7%.
Product revenue in the APJC segment decreased by 8%, driven by declines in the commercial, service provider and enterprise markets, partially offset by growth in the public sector market.
From a country perspective, the product revenue decline was driven by a 21% decrease in China.
We also saw decreases of 18% in Australia and 10% in India, partially offset by a product revenue increase in Japan of 6%.
From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 18% in India and 10% in Japan, while product revenue in China decreased by 12%.
Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
The Infrastructure Platforms product category represents our core networking offerings related to switching, routing, wireless, and the data center.
Infrastructure Platforms revenue increased by 5%, or $365 million, with solid growth across the portfolio.
The growth in switching was driven by an increase in sales of our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series and strength in our Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) portfolio.
Revenue from our routing products increased driven by growth in our software-defined wide area network (SD-WAN) products.
We experienced solid revenue growth from wireless products driven by growth across the portfolio.
Revenue from data center also increased driven by higher sales of our hyperconverged data center offering, HyperFlex, and our server products.
Revenue from the Infrastructure Platforms product category increased 7%, or $1,445 million, with growth across the portfolio.
Switching had solid growth, with solid revenue growth in campus switching driven by an increase in sales of our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series, and with revenue growth in data center switching driven by increased revenue from our ACI portfolio.
Routing experienced revenue growth driven by an increase in sales of SD-WAN products.
We experienced double digit revenue growth from wireless products driven by growth across the portfolio.
Revenue from data center increased driven by higher sales of HyperFlex and our server products.
The Applications product category includes our collaboration offerings (unified communications, Cisco TelePresence and conferencing) as well as the Internet of Things (IoT) and analytics software offerings from Jasper and AppDynamics, respectively.
Revenue in our Applications product category increased by 9%, or $121 million, with growth across all of the business.
We had solid revenue growth in unified communications software, TelePresence and analytics from AppDynamics.
Revenue in our Applications product category increased by 17%, or $618 million, with strong revenue growth in unified communications, TelePresence and analytics from AppDynamics.
The acquisition of Duo Security in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 also contributed to the revenue increase in this product category.
Revenue in our Security product category increased 17%, or $291 million, driven by higher sales of identity and access, advanced threat security, unified threat management and web security products.
The acquisition of Duo Security in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 also contributed to the revenue increase in this product category.
The decrease in revenue from our Other Products category for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2018, was primarily driven by a decrease in revenue from the SPVSS business which we divested on October 28, 2018.
Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
Service revenue increased 2%, driven by an increase in software and solution support offerings.
Service revenue increased 2%, driven by an increase in software and solution support offerings.
Service revenue increased in the Americas and EMEA segments, partially offset by decreased revenue in our APJC segment.
 (1) Productivity includes overall manufacturing-related costs, such as component costs, warranty expense, provision for inventory, freight, logistics, shipment volume, and other items not categorized elsewhere.
Productivity improvements were driven by cost reductions including value engineering efforts (e.g.
component redesign, board configuration, test processes and transformation processes) and continued operational efficiency in manufacturing operations.
The unfavorable product mix impact was driven by our products within the Infrastructure Platforms product category.
Our product gross margin also benefited from lower amortization expense from purchased intangible assets related to the divestiture of the SPVSS business on October 28, 2018.
A charge of $127 million to product cost of sales recorded in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 related to legal and indemnification settlements also contributed to the increase.
Our service gross margin percentage increased by 0.5 percentage points due to higher sales volume, partially offset by increased delivery costs.
Another factor is the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical support services.
Service gross margin percentage decreased by 0.1 percentage points due to increased headcount-related costs and increased delivery costs.
 (1) The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization and impairments of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, significant litigation settlements and other contingencies, charges related to asset impairments and restructurings, and certain other charges.
We do not allocate these items to the gross margin for each segment because management does not include such information in measuring the performance of the operating segments.
Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
The unfavorable product mix impact was driven by our products within the Infrastructure Platforms product category.
The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate, and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment.
The decrease in share-based compensation expense was due primarily to higher forfeitures.
The decrease in share-based compensation expense was due primarily to higher forfeitures, partially offset by higher restructuring charges.
The decrease in amortization of purchased intangible assets in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, as compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2018, was due largely to the purchased intangible assets related to the divestiture of SPVSS business on October 28, 2018, partially offset by amortization from our recent acquisitions.
We initiated a restructuring plan during fiscal 2018 in order to realign our organization and enable further investment in key priority areas, with estimated pretax charges of approximately $600 million.
In connection with this restructuring plan, we incurred charges of $18 million and $282 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, and have incurred cumulative charges of $390 million since inception.
We expect this restructuring plan to be substantially completed in the first half of fiscal 2020.
We incurred restructuring and other charges of $82 million and $332 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, in connection with restructuring plans initiated during fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017.
These charges were primarily cash-based and consisted of employee severance and other one-time termination benefits, and other associated costs.
We expect to reinvest substantially all of the cost savings from these restructuring actions in our key priority areas.
As a result, the overall cost savings from these restructuring actions are not expected to be material for future periods.
Interest income decreased, driven by a decrease in the average balance of cash and available-for-sale debt investments.
The decrease in interest expense was driven by a lower average debt balance, partially offset by the impact of higher effective interest rates.
The total change in net gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt investments was primarily attributable to lower realized losses as a result of market conditions, and the timing of sales of these investments.
The total change in net gains (losses) on marketable equity investments was attributable to market value fluctuations and the timing of recognition of gains and losses.
The change in net gains (losses) on non-marketable equity and other investments was primarily due to higher realized and unrealized gains and lower impairment charges.
The change in other gains (losses), net was primarily driven by higher donation expense in the prior year, partially offset by net unfavorable foreign exchange impacts.
The total change in net gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt investments was primarily attributable to lower realized losses as a result of market conditions, and the timing of sales of these investments.
The total change in net gains (losses) on marketable equity investments was attributable to market value fluctuations and the timing of recognition of gains and losses.
The change in net gains (losses) on non-marketable equity and other investments was primarily due to higher unrealized gains and lower impairment charges partially offset by lower realized gains.
The change in other gains (losses), net was driven by higher donation expense in the prior year, and favorable foreign exchange impacts.
The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 15.8% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with 17.3% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a decrease in the U.S. federal tax rate from 27% to 21% as the result of enactment of Tax Act, partially offset by a provisional tax adjustment recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 relating to U.S transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and re-measurement of net DTA.
The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 13.4% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with 139.1% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, foreign withholding tax, and DTA re-measurement recorded during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, our capital allocation strategy including stock repurchase program and dividends, our contractual obligations, and certain other commitments and activities on our liquidity and capital resources.
These uses of cash were partially offset by cash provided by operating activities of $11.9 billion and timing of settlements of investments and other of $1.8 billion.
Additionally, $4.5 billion of long-term debt and approximately $3.3 billion of commercial paper notes outstanding at April 27, 2019 will mature within the next 12 months from the balance sheet date.
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations.
We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio consisting primarily of high quality investment-grade securities.
We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and payment of dividends as discussed below.
Free Cash Flow and Capital Allocation As part of our capital allocation strategy, we intend to return a minimum of 50% of our free cash flow annually to our shareholders through cash dividends and repurchases of common stock.
Risk Factors” in this report.
We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors because of our intent to return a stated percentage of free cash flow to shareholders in the form of dividends and stock repurchases.
We further regard free cash flow as a useful measure because it reflects cash that can be used to, among other things, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions, repurchase common stock, and pay dividends on our common stock, after deducting capital investments.
A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance and liquidity is that the free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period.
In addition, we have other required uses of cash, including repaying the principal of our outstanding indebtedness.
Free cash flow is not a measure calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be regarded in isolation or as an alternative for net cash provided by operating activities or any other measure calculated in accordance with such principles, and other companies may calculate free cash flow in a different manner than we do.
Our accounts receivable net, as of April 27, 2019 decreased by approximately 32%, as compared with the end of fiscal 2018, primarily due to product and service billings being more linear in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
Inventory as of April 27, 2019 decreased by 18% from our inventory balance at the end of fiscal 2018.
The decrease in inventory was due primarily to lower deferred cost of sales related to the adoption of ASC 606 in the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2019.
We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products.
During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements and our commitment to securing manufacturing capacity.
On a combined basis, inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers decreased by 15% compared with the end of fiscal 2018.
We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels.
Our loan receivables include customer financing for purchases of our hardware, software and services and also may include additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.
We also provide financing to certain qualified customers for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services.
The majority of the revenue from these financed service contracts is deferred and is recognized ratably over the period during which the services are performed.
Financing receivables increased by 1%.
We expect to continue to expand the use of our financing programs in the near term.
Financing Guarantees In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs.
The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years.
In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements.
In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party.
The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms.
We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers.
Historically, our payments under these arrangements have been immaterial.
Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees.
In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed.
As of April 27, 2019, the total maximum potential future payments related to these guarantees was approximately $240 million, of which approximately $81 million was recorded as deferred revenue.
Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium.
Interest is payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes.
We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of April 27, 2019.
Commercial Paper We have a short-term debt financing program in which up to $10.0 billion is available through the issuance of commercial paper notes.
We use the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes.
We had $3.3 billion in commercial paper notes outstanding as of April 27, 2019 and no commercial paper notes outstanding as of July 28, 2018.
Of the total deferred revenue decrease related to ASC 606 of $2.8 billion, $2.6 billion relates to deferred product revenue and $0.2 billion relates to deferred service revenue.
Of the adjustment to deferred product revenue, $1.3 billion related to our recurring software and subscription offers, $0.6 billion related to two-tier distribution, and the remainder related to non-recurring software and other adjustments.
We lease office space in many U.S. locations.
Outside the United States, larger leased sites include sites in Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Germany, India, Japan, Mexico, Poland and the United Kingdom.
We also lease equipment and vehicles.
The future minimum lease payments under all of our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of April 27, 2019 were $1.2 billion.
See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other Funding Commitments We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our non-marketable equity and other investments, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand.
In the ordinary course of business, we have non-marketable equity and other investments and provide financing to certain customers.
Certain of these investments are considered to be variable interest entities.
On an ongoing basis, we reassess our non-marketable equity and other investments and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance.
As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities.
Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events.
We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers.
We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers.
See the previous discussion of these financing guarantees under “Financing Receivables and Guarantees.”
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On September 13, 2001, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program.
Although these withheld shares are not issued or considered common stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program and therefore are not included in the preceding table, they are treated as common stock repurchases in our financial statements as they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued upon vesting (see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
