See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying financial data as of January 27, 2018 and for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017 has been prepared by the Company, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 29, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
However, the Company believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2017.
The Company consolidates its investments in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates (“SOFTBANK”) as this is a variable interest entity and the Company is the primary beneficiary.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to SOFTBANK are presented as a separate component from the Company’s equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
SOFTBANK’s share of the earnings in the venture fund are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of January 27, 2018; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017; the statements of cash flows and equity for the six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017, as applicable, have been made.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full fiscal year or any future periods.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the amounts in prior periods in order to conform to the current period’s presentation.
The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
Share-Based Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that impacts the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
This resulted in an overall decrease in the effective tax rate for the six months ended January 27, 2018 due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have a material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
The new standard will supersede nearly all U.S. GAAP on revenue recognition and eliminate industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle of the new standard is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
Cisco is on schedule in establishing new accounting policies, implementing systems and processes (including more extensive use of estimates), and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of the new standard.
assessment of the financial statement impact of the new standard, as discussed below, and will continue to update that assessment as more information becomes available.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, the new standard will require incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized over the contract period.
Currently, these costs are expensed as incurred.
Cisco will be required to record cumulative effect adjustments to retained earnings (net of tax) upon adopting the new standard at the beginning of fiscal 2019.
The most significant of these adjustments will be to reduce product deferred revenue and increase retained earnings at the date of adoption to reflect revenue that would have been already recognized under the new standard related to existing arrangements.
There will also be an adjustment to increase accounts receivable and reduce inventories related to the changes in revenue recognition on sales to two-tier distributors.
Lastly, an adjustment will be recorded to establish an asset and increase retained earnings related to the requirement to capitalize incremental contract acquisition costs for customer contracts.
Financial Instruments In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and early adoption is permitted.
The most significant impact of this accounting standard update for Cisco is that it will require the remeasurement of investments that are not accounted for under the equity method at fair value at the end of each reporting period with the changes recorded to the income statement.
While Cisco is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Financial Statements, Cisco expects that this accounting standard update will increase the variability of other income (loss), net.
Leases In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update related to leases requiring lessees to recognize operating and financing lease liabilities on the balance sheet, as well as corresponding right-of-use assets.
The new lease standard also makes some changes to lessor accounting and aligns key aspects of the lessor accounting model with the revenue recognition standard.
In addition, disclosures will be required to enable users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
Cisco is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption in fiscal 2020 is permitted.
Cisco is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Classification of Cash Flow Elements In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update related to the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
Cisco is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Income Taxes on Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets (other than inventory) at the transaction date.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
Cisco is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Restricted Cash in Statement of Cash Flow In November 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that provides guidance on the classification and presentation of changes in restricted cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using a retrospective transition method to each period presented, and early adoption is permitted.
Cisco does not expect that this accounting standard update will have a material impact on its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Definition of a Business In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that clarifies the definition of a business to help companies evaluate whether acquisition or disposal transactions should be accounted for as asset groups or as businesses.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a prospective basis.
The impact of this accounting standard update will be fact dependent, but Cisco expects that some transactions that were previously accounted for as business combinations or disposal transactions will be accounted for as asset purchases or asset sales under the accounting standard update.
Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment  In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that removes Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires the assessment of fair value of individual assets and liabilities of a reporting unit to measure goodwill impairments.
Goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its fair value.
The accounting standard update will be effective for Cisco beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 on a prospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
Cisco does not expect that this accounting standard update will impact its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The application of this accounting standard update will not have a material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revenue from the Viptela acquisition has been included in the Company's Infrastructure Platforms product category.
Revenue from the Springpath acquisition has been included in the Company's Infrastructure Platforms product category.
The purchase price allocation for acquisitions completed during recent periods is preliminary and subject to revision as additional information about fair value of assets and liabilities becomes available.
Additional information that existed as of the acquisition date but at that time was unknown to the Company may become known to the Company during the remainder of the measurement period, a period not to exceed 12 months from the acquisition date.
Adjustments in the purchase price allocation may require a recasting of the amounts allocated to goodwill retroactive to the period in which the acquisition occurred.
The goodwill is generally not deductible for income tax purposes.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each acquisition from the date of acquisition.
Pro forma results of operations for the acquisitions completed during the six months ended January 27, 2018 have not been presented because the effects of the acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to the Company’s financial results.
The Company completed two divestitures during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The financial statement impact of these divestitures was not material for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018.
Acquisition of BroadSoft On February 1, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of BroadSoft, Inc. ("BroadSoft"), a cloud calling and contact center solutions company for total consideration of approximately $1.9 billion, net of cash and short-term investments.
Revenue from the BroadSoft acquisition will be included in the Company's Applications product category.
The Company expects that most of the purchase price will be allocated to goodwill and purchased intangible assets.
4.Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets
“Other” in the table above primarily consists of foreign currency translation, as well as immaterial purchase accounting adjustments.
Purchased intangible assets include intangible assets acquired through acquisitions as well as through direct purchases or licenses.
The Company began taking action under a restructuring plan in August 2016 (the "Fiscal 2017 Plan"), in order to reinvest in its key priority areas.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company extended the Fiscal 2017 Plan to include an additional $150 million of estimated additional pretax charges for employee severance and other one-time termination benefits.
The Company has substantially completed the Fiscal 2017 Plan and has incurred cumulative charges of $1.0 billion.
These aggregate pretax charges are primarily cash based and consist of employee severance and other one-time termination benefits, and other associated costs.
Lease receivables represent sales-type and direct-financing leases resulting from the sale of the Company’s and complementary third-party products and are typically collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets.
Loan receivables represent financing arrangements related to the sale of the Company’s hardware, software, and services, which may include additional funding for other costs associated with network installation and integration of the Company’s products and services.
Revenue related to the technical support services is typically deferred and included in deferred service revenue and is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed, which typically ranges from one to three years.
Actual cash collections may differ from the contractual maturities due to early customer buyouts, refinancings, or defaults.
Credit risk ratings of 7 and higher correspond to substandard ratings.
In circumstances when collectibility is not deemed reasonably assured, the associated revenue is deferred in accordance with the Company’s revenue recognition policies, and the related allowance for credit loss, if any, is included in deferred revenue.
The Company also records deferred revenue associated with financing receivables when there are remaining performance obligations, as it does for financed service contracts.
The data in the preceding tables is presented by contract, and the aging classification of each contract is based on the oldest outstanding receivable, and therefore past due amounts also include unbilled and current receivables within the same contract.
The balances of either unbilled or current financing receivables included in the category of 91 days plus past due for financing receivables were $462 million and $666 million as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017, respectively.
As of January 27, 2018, the Company had financing receivables of $358 million, net of unbilled or current receivables, that were in the category of 91 days plus past due but remained on accrual status as they are well secured and in the process of collection.
Such balance was $315 million as of July 29, 2017.
The Company considers various factors in evaluating lease and loan receivables and the earned portion of financed service contracts for possible impairment on an individual basis.
These factors include the Company’s historical experience, credit quality and age of the receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer’s ability to pay.
All such outstanding amounts, including any accrued interest, will be assessed and fully reserved at the customer level.
Typically, the Company also considers receivables with a risk rating of 8 or higher to be impaired and will include them in the individual assessment for allowance.
These balances, as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017, are presented under “(b) Credit Quality of Financing Receivables” above.
The Company evaluates the remainder of its financing receivables portfolio for impairment on a collective basis and records an allowance for credit loss at the portfolio segment level.
When evaluating the financing receivables on a collective basis, the Company uses expected default frequency rates published by a major third-party credit-rating agency as well as its own historical loss rate in the event of default, while also systematically giving effect to economic conditions, concentration of risk, and correlation.
Non-U.S. government and agency securities include agency and corporate debt securities that are guaranteed by non-U.S. governments.
These impairment charges related primarily to publicly traded equity securities and were due to a decline in the fair value of those securities below their cost basis that were determined to be other than temporary.
There were no impairment charges on available-for-sale investments for the corresponding periods in fiscal 2017.
As of January 27, 2018, for fixed income securities that were in unrealized loss positions, the Company has determined that (i) it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii) it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis.
In addition, as of January 27, 2018, the Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the six months ended January 27, 2018.
The Company has evaluated its publicly traded equity securities as of January 27, 2018 and has determined that there were no additional other-than-temporary impairments in the respective categories of unrealized losses.
This determination was based on several factors, which include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company’s intent and ability to hold the publicly traded equity securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.
The Company periodically engages in securities lending activities with certain of its available for sale investments.
These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis.
The Company requires collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets.
The Company engages in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify the Company against collateral losses.
The Company did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the periods presented.
As of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017, the Company had no outstanding securities lending transactions.
For additional information on impairment charges related to investments in privately held companies, see Note 9.
Variable Interest Entities In the ordinary course of business, the Company has investments in privately held companies and provides financing to certain customers.
These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities.
The Company evaluates on an ongoing basis its investments in these privately held companies and its customer financings, and has determined that as of January 27, 2018, except as disclosed in Note 1, there were no significant variable interest entities required to be consolidated in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of January 27, 2018, the carrying value of investments in privately held companies was $982 million, of which $528 million of such investments are considered to be in variable interest entities which are unconsolidated.
In addition, the Company has additional funding commitments of $215 million related to these investments, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand.
The carrying value of these investments and the additional funding commitments collectively represent the Company's maximum exposure related to these variable interest entities.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it also considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
Level 1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets); or model-derived valuations in which significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.
Level 3 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 assets include certain derivative instruments, the values of which are determined based on discounted cash flow models using inputs that the Company could not corroborate with market data.
These assets were measured at fair value due to events or circumstances the Company identified as having significant impact on their fair value during the respective periods.
To arrive at the valuation of these assets, the Company considers any significant changes in the financial metrics and economic variables and also uses third-party valuation reports to assist in the valuation as necessary.
The fair value measurement of the impaired investments was classified as Level 3 because significant unobservable inputs were used in the valuation due to the absence of quoted market prices and inherent lack of liquidity.
The impairment charges, representing the difference between the net book value and the fair value as a result of the evaluation, were recorded to other income (loss), net.
The fair value for purchased intangible assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis was categorized as Level 3 due to the use of significant unobservable inputs in the valuation.
Significant unobservable inputs that were used included expected revenues and net income related to the assets and the expected life of the assets.
The difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of the assets was recorded as an impairment charge, which was included in product cost of sales and operating expenses as applicable.
The remaining carrying value of the specific purchased intangible assets that were impaired was $9 million as of January 28, 2017.
The fair value measurement was categorized as Level 3, as significant unobservable inputs were used in the valuation report.
The impairment charge as a result of the valuations, which represented the difference between the fair value less cost to sell and the carrying amount of the assets held for sale, was included in restructuring and other charges.
The carrying value of investments in privately held companies that were accounted for under the cost method was $861 million and $859 million as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017, respectively.
It was not practicable to estimate the fair value of this portfolio.
The fair value of short-term loan receivables and financed service contracts approximates their carrying value due to their short duration.
The aggregate carrying value of long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017 was $3.5 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively.
The estimated fair value of long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts approximates their carrying value.
The Company uses significant unobservable inputs in determining discounted cash flows to estimate the fair value of its long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts, and therefore they are categorized as Level 3.
As of January 27, 2018, the estimated fair value of the short-term debt approximates its carrying value due to the short maturities.
The fair value of the senior notes and other long-term debt was determined based on observable market prices in a less active market and was categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
The Company has a short-term debt financing program of up to $10.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper notes.
The Company uses the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes.
The effective rates for the short- and long-term debt include the interest on the notes, the accretion of the discount, the issuance costs, and, if applicable, adjustments related to hedging.
The Company entered into interest rate swaps in prior periods with an aggregate notional amount of $6.75 billion designated as fair value hedges of certain of its fixed-rate senior notes.
The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market interest rates.
For additional information, see Note 11.
Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes and payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes.
Each of the senior fixed-rate notes is redeemable by the Company at any time, subject to a make-whole premium.
These credit agreements require that the Company comply with certain covenants, including that the Company maintains an interest coverage ratio as defined in these agreements.
As of January 27, 2018, the Company was in compliance with the required interest coverage ratios and the other covenants, and the Company had not borrowed any funds under these credit facilities.
The Company uses derivative instruments primarily to manage exposures to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and equity price risks.
The Company’s primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices.
The Company’s derivatives expose it to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement.
The Company does, however, seek to mitigate such risks by limiting its counterparties to major financial institutions.
In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored.
Management does not expect material losses as a result of defaults by counterparties.
As of January 27, 2018, the Company estimates that approximately $56 million of net derivative gains related to its cash flow hedges included in accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months when the underlying hedged item impacts earnings.
The Company conducts business globally in numerous currencies.
Therefore, it is exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
To limit the exposure related to foreign currency changes, the Company enters into foreign currency contracts.
The Company does not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes.
The Company hedges forecasted foreign currency transactions related to certain operating expenses and service cost of sales with currency options and forward contracts.
These currency options and forward contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 24 months.
The Company assesses effectiveness based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives.
The effective portion of the derivative instrument’s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings.
The ineffective portion, if any, of the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately.
During the periods presented, the Company did not discontinue any cash flow hedges for which it was probable that a forecasted transaction would not occur.
The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities such as foreign currency receivables, including long-term customer financings, investments, and payables.
Gains and losses on the contracts are included in other income (loss), net, and substantially offset foreign exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement of intercompany balances or other current assets, investments, or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting entity.
The Company hedges certain net investments in its foreign operations with forward contracts to reduce the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on the Company’s net investment in those foreign subsidiaries.
To realize these objectives, the Company may utilize interest rate swaps or other derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges.
As of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017, the Company did not have any outstanding interest rate derivatives related to its fixed income securities.
Under these interest rate swaps, the Company receives fixed-rate interest payments and makes interest payments based on LIBOR plus a fixed number of basis points.
The effect of such swaps is to convert the fixed interest rates of the senior fixed-rate notes to floating interest rates based on LIBOR.
The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are included in interest expense and substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market interest rates.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps was reflected in other current assets and other assets.
The publicly traded equity securities in the Company’s portfolio are subject to price risk.
The changes in the value of the hedging instruments are included in other income (loss), net, and offset the change in the fair value of the underlying hedged investment.
The changes in the fair value of these derivatives are also included in other income (loss), net.
The Company is also exposed to variability in compensation charges related to certain deferred compensation obligations to employees.
Although not designated as accounting hedges, the Company utilizes derivatives such as total return swaps to economically hedge this exposure.
For the periods presented, amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were not material for fair value, cash flow, and net investment hedges.
In addition, hedge ineffectiveness for fair value, cash flow, and net investment hedges was not material for any of the periods presented.
The Company purchases components from a variety of suppliers and uses several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for its products.
During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, the Company enters into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by the Company or establish the parameters defining the Company’s requirements.
A significant portion of the Company’s reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments.
Certain of these purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers relate to arrangements to secure long-term pricing for certain product components for multi-year periods.
In certain instances, these agreements allow the Company the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust the Company’s requirements based on its business needs prior to firm orders being placed.
As of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017, the liability for these purchase commitments was $159 million and $162 million, respectively, and was included in other current liabilities.
In connection with the Company’s acquisitions, the Company has agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones or upon the continued employment with the Company of certain employees of the acquired entities.
As of January 27, 2018, the Company estimated that future cash compensation expense of up to $246 million may be required to be recognized pursuant to the applicable business combination agreements.
In fiscal 2012, the Company made an investment in Insieme, an early stage company focused on research and development in the data center market.
This investment included $100 million of funding and a license to certain of the Company’s technology.
During fiscal 2014, the Company acquired the remaining interests in Insieme, at which time the former noncontrolling interest holders became eligible to receive up to two milestone payments, which were determined using agreed-upon formulas based primarily on revenue for certain of Insieme’s products.
The Company also has certain funding commitments, primarily related to its investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand.
The Company’s products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products the Company provides a limited lifetime warranty.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company provides financing guarantees for various third-party financing arrangements extended to channel partners and end-user customers.
These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and, in some cases, the Company guarantees a portion of these arrangements.
Other Guarantees The Company’s other guarantee arrangements as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017 that were subject to recognition and disclosure requirements were not material.
In fiscal 2014, the Company recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $655 million resulting from failures related to products containing memory components manufactured by a single supplier between 2005 and 2010.
The Company performs regular assessments of the sufficiency of this liability and reduced the amount by $74 million and $164 million in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively based on updated analyses.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company further reduced the liability by $141 million to reflect lower than expected defects, actual usage history, and estimated lower future remediation costs as more of the impacted products age and near the end of the support period covered by the remediation program.
In addition, during the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $125 million related to the expected remediation costs for anticipated failures in future periods of a widely-used component sourced from a third party which is included in several of the Company’s products.
The liabilities related to the supplier component remediation matters as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017 were $120 million and $174 million, respectively.
In the normal course of business, the Company indemnifies other parties, including customers, lessors, and parties to other transactions with the Company, with respect to certain matters.
These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim.
The Company has been asked to indemnify certain of the Company’s service provider customers that have been subject to patent infringement claims asserted by Sprint Communications Company, L.P. in federal court in Kansas and Delaware.
Sprint alleges that the service provider customers infringed Sprint’s patents by offering VoIP telephone services utilizing products provided by the Company generally in combination with those of other manufacturers.
Sprint seeks monetary damages.
Following a trial on March 3, 2017 against Time Warner Inc., a jury in Kansas found that Time Warner Cable willfully infringed five Sprint patents and awarded Sprint $139.8 million in damages.
On March 14, 2017, the Kansas court declined Sprint's request for enhanced damages and entered judgment in favor of Sprint for $139.8 million plus 1.06% in post-judgment interest.
On May 30, 2017, the Court awarded Sprint $20.3 million in pre-judgment interest and denied Time Warner Cable's post-trial motions.
On October 16, 2017, Sprint and Comcast Cable Communications, LLC reached resolution of the claims in Sprint's lawsuit against Comcast and, on October 19, 2017, the Kansas court dismissed Sprint's lawsuit.
On December 6, 2017, Sprint and Cox Communications, Inc. reached resolution of the claims in Sprint's lawsuit against Cox, and the Delaware court dismissed Sprint's lawsuit against Cox on December 7, 2017.
On January 15, 2016, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. (“Huawei”) filed four patent infringement actions against T-Mobile US, Inc. and T-Mobile USA, Inc. (collectively, “T-Mobile”) in federal court in the Eastern District of Texas.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded legal and indemnification settlement charges of $127 million to product cost of sales in relation to these matters.
At this time, the Company does not anticipate that its obligations regarding the final outcome of the above matters would be material.
In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors, and the Company’s Amended and Restated Bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to the Company’s agents.
It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the Company’s limited history with prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
Historically, payments made by the Company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the Company’s operating results, financial position, or cash flows.
Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated the Company’s Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of the Company’s products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against the Company’s Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $257 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.6 billion for interest, and $1.2 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of January 27, 2018.
The Company has completed a thorough review of the matters and believes the asserted claims against the Company’s Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and the Company is defending the claims vigorously.
While the Company believes there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, the Company is unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against its Brazilian subsidiary and is unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any.
SSL SSL Services, LLC (“SSL”) has asserted claims for patent infringement against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
The proceeding was instituted on March 25, 2015.
SSL alleges that the Company's AnyConnect products that include Virtual Private Networking functions infringed a U.S. patent owned by SSL.
SSL seeks money damages from the Company.
On February 23, 2016, a PTAB multi-judge panel found a reasonable likelihood that the Company would prevail in showing that SSL’s patent claims are unpatentable and instituted proceedings.
On February 22, 2017, following a hearing, the PTAB issued its Final Written Decision that the patent’s claims are unpatentable.
If the Company does not prevail and a jury were to find that the Company's AnyConnect products infringe, the Company believes damages, as appropriately measured, would be immaterial.
Due to uncertainty surrounding patent litigation processes, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation at this time.
Straight Path On September 24, 2014, Straight Path IP Group, Inc. (“Straight Path”) asserted patent infringement claims against the Company in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, accusing the Company’s 9971 IP Phone, Unified Communications Manager working in conjunction with 9971 IP Phones, and Video Communication Server products of infringement.
On November 13, 2017, the Court granted the Company's motion for summary judgment of non-infringement, thereby dismissing Straight Path's claims against the Company and cancelling a trial which had been set for March 12, 2018.
DXC Technology On August 21, 2015, the Company and Cisco Systems Capital Corporation (“Cisco Capital”) filed an action in Santa Clara County Superior Court for declaratory judgment and breach of contract against HP Inc. (“HP”) regarding a services agreement for management services of a third party’s network.
HP disputed the Company’s credit calculation and contended that the Company owes a larger credit to HP than the Company had calculated.
In December 2015, the Company filed an amended complaint which dropped the breach of contract claim in light of HP’s continuing payments to Cisco Capital under the financing arrangement.
On January 19, 2016, HP Inc. filed a counterclaim for breach of contract simultaneously with its answer to the amended complaint.
DXC Technology Corporation (“DXC”) reported that it is the party in interest in this matter pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement between the then Hewlett-Packard Co. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“HPE") and the subsequent Separation and Distribution Agreement between HPE and DXC.
On January 8, 2018, the court continued the trial date from March 12, 2018 to June 11, 2018.
The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation due to uncertainty surrounding the litigation process.
However, the Company does not anticipate that its obligation, if any, regarding the final outcome of the dispute would be material.
In addition, the Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property litigation.
During the six months ended January 27, 2018, the Company declared and paid cash dividends of $0.58 per common share, or $2.9 billion, on the Company’s outstanding common stock.
During the six months ended January 28, 2017, the Company declared and paid cash dividends of $0.52 per common share, or $2.6 billion, on the Company’s outstanding common stock.
On February 14, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.33 per common share to be paid on April 25, 2018 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 5, 2018.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of the Company's Board of Directors.
There were $240 million stock repurchases pending settlement as of January 27, 2018.
There were $66 million of stock repurchases that were pending settlement as of July 29, 2017.
The purchase price for the shares of the Company’s stock repurchased is reflected as a reduction to shareholders’ equity.
The Company is required to allocate the purchase price of the repurchased shares as (i) a reduction to retained earnings and (ii) a reduction of common stock and additional paid-in capital.
The Company repurchased approximately 13 million and 14 million shares, for the six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017, or $433 million and $432 million of common stock, respectively, in settlement of employee tax withholding obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock or stock units.
2005 Plan  As of January 27, 2018, the maximum number of shares issuable under the 2005 Plan over its term was 694 million shares, plus shares from certain previous plans that are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled.
If any awards granted under the 2005 Plan are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, the unexercised or unsettled shares underlying the awards will again be available under the 2005 Plan.
In addition, starting November 19, 2013, shares withheld by the Company from an award other than a stock option or stock appreciation right to satisfy withholding tax liabilities resulting from such award will again be available for issuance, based on the fungible share ratio in effect on the date of grant.
Pursuant to an amendment approved by the Company's shareholders on November 12, 2009, the number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan is reduced by 1.5 shares for each share awarded as a stock grant or a stock unit, and any shares underlying awards outstanding from certain previous plans that expire unexercised at the end of their maximum terms become available for reissuance under the 2005 Plan.
The 2005 Plan permits the granting of stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units ("RSUs"), the vesting of which may be performance-based or market-based along with the requisite service requirement, and stock appreciation rights to employees (including employee directors and officers), consultants of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and non-employee directors of the Company.
Stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under the 2005 Plan have an exercise price of at least 100% of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date.
The expiration date for stock options and stock appreciation rights shall be no later than 10 years from the grant date.
The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which includes its subplan named the International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (together, the “Purchase Plan”), under which 621 million shares of the Company’s common stock have been reserved for issuance as of January 27, 2018.
Employees may purchase a limited number of shares of the Company’s stock at a discount of up to 15% of the lesser of the market value at the beginning of the offering period or the end of each 6-month purchase period.
The Purchase Plan is scheduled to terminate on January 3, 2020.
As of January 27, 2018, the total compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards not yet recognized was $3.4 billion, which is expected to be recognized over approximately 2.6 years on a weighted-average basis.
As reflected in the preceding table, for each share awarded as restricted stock or subject to a restricted stock unit award under the 2005 Plan, an equivalent of 1.5 shares was deducted from the available share-based award balance.
For restricted stock units that were awarded with vesting contingent upon the achievement of future financial performance or market-based metrics, the maximum awards that can be achieved upon full vesting of such awards were reflected in the preceding table.
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the Company’s closing stock price of $42.56 as of January 26, 2018, that would have been received by the option holders had those option holders exercised their stock options as of that date.
As of July 29, 2017, 6 million outstanding stock options were exercisable and the weighted-average exercise price was $5.61.
The PRSUs granted during the periods presented are contingent on the achievement of the Company’s financial performance metrics, its comparative market-based returns, or the achievement of financial and non-financial operating goals.
For the awards based on financial performance metrics or comparative market-based returns, generally 50% of the PRSUs are earned based on the average of annual operating cash flow and earnings per share goals established at the beginning of each fiscal year over a three-year performance period.
Generally, the remaining 50% of the PRSUs are earned based on the Company’s TSR measured against the benchmark TSR of a peer group over the same period.
Each PRSU recipient could vest in 0% to 150% of the target shares granted contingent on the achievement of the Company's financial performance metrics or its comparative market-based returns and 0% to 100% of the target shares granted contingent on the achievement of non-financial operating goals.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted.
As a result of the decrease in the federal tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, the Company has computed its income tax expense for the July 28, 2018 fiscal year using a blended federal tax rate of 27%.
The 21% federal tax rate will apply to the Company’s fiscal year ending July 27, 2019 and each year thereafter.
The Company must remeasure its deferred tax assets and liabilities ("DTA") using the federal tax rate that will apply when the related temporary differences are expected to reverse.
The Company has reevaluated its historic assertion as a result of enactment of the Tax Act and no longer considers these earnings to be indefinitely reinvested in its foreign subsidiaries.
As a result of this change in assertion, the Company has recorded a $1.2 billion tax expense for foreign withholding tax in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company anticipates repatriating $67 billion of foreign subsidiary earnings to the U.S. (in the form of cash, cash equivalents, or investments), of which $26 billion was repatriated to the U.S. in February 2018.
During the three months ended January 27, 2018, the Company recorded a provisional tax expense of $11.1 billion related to the Tax Act, comprised of $9.0 billion of U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax (discussed above), and $0.9 billion re-measurement of net DTA.
The Company plans to pay the transition tax in installments over eight years in accordance with the Tax Act.
The $1.2 billion foreign withholding tax was paid in February 2018.
As of January 27, 2018, the Company had $2.0 billion of unrecognized tax benefit, of which $1.6 billion, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective tax rate.
Specific positions that may be resolved include issues involving transfer pricing and various other matters.
The Company estimates that the unrecognized tax benefits at January 27, 2018 could be reduced by approximately $250 million in the next 12 months.
17.Segment Information and Major Customers
Revenue in the United States was $6.1 billion and $5.9 billion for the three months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017, respectively, and was $12.6 billion and $12.5 billion for the six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017, respectively.
The majority of the Company’s assets, excluding cash and cash equivalents and investments, was attributable to its U.S. operations as of each of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
The Company’s total cash and cash equivalents and investments held by various foreign subsidiaries were $71.3 billion and $67.5 billion as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017, respectively, and the remaining $2.4 billion and $3.0 billion at the respective period ends were available in the United States.
18.Net Income (Loss) per Share
Employee equity share options, unvested shares, and similar equity instruments are treated as potential common shares outstanding in computing diluted earnings per share.
Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money options, unvested restricted stock, and restricted stock units.
Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options and the amount of compensation cost for future service that has not yet recognized would be recorded in additional paid-in capital when the award becomes deductible are collectively assumed to be used to repurchase shares.
For the three and six months ended January 27, 2018, the Company excluded the impact of potentially dilutive common shares from the calculation of net income (loss) per share as the inclusion would have an antidilutive effect.
Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $257 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.6 billion for interest, and $1.2 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of January 27, 2018.
We have completed a thorough review of the matters and believe the asserted claims against our Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and we are defending the claims vigorously.
We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years.
SSL SSL Services, LLC (“SSL”) has asserted claims for patent infringement against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
The proceeding was instituted on March 25, 2015.
SSL alleges that our AnyConnect products that include Virtual Private Networking functions infringed a U.S. patent owned by SSL.
SSL seeks money damages from us.
On February 23, 2016, a PTAB multi-judge panel found a reasonable likelihood that we would prevail in showing that SSL’s patent claims are unpatentable and instituted proceedings.
On February 22, 2017, following a hearing, the PTAB issued its Final Written Decision that the patent’s claims are unpatentable.
Due to uncertainty surrounding patent litigation processes, we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation at this time.
Straight Path On September 24, 2014, Straight Path IP Group, Inc. (“Straight Path”) asserted patent infringement claims against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, accusing our 9971 IP Phone, Unified Communications Manager working in conjunction with 9971 IP Phones, and Video Communication Server products of infringement.
On November 13, 2017, the Court granted our motion for summary judgment of non-infringement, thereby dismissing Straight Path's claims against us and cancelling a trial which had been set for March 12, 2018.
HP terminated its agreement with us, and pursuant to the terms of the service agreement with HP, we determined the credit HP was entitled to receive under the agreement.
HP disputed our credit calculation and contended that we owe a larger credit to HP than we had calculated.
In December 2015, we filed an amended complaint which dropped the breach of contract claim in light of HP’s continuing payments to Cisco Capital under the financing arrangement.
On January 19, 2016, HP Inc. filed a counterclaim for breach of contract simultaneously with its answer to the amended complaint.
DXC Technology Corporation (“DXC”) reported that it is the party in interest in this matter pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement between the then Hewlett-Packard Co. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“HPE") and the subsequent Separation and Distribution Agreement between HPE and DXC.
On January 8, 2018, the court continued the trial date from March 12, 2018 to June 11, 2018.
We are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation due to uncertainty surrounding the litigation process.
For additional information regarding intellectual property litigation, see “Part II, Item 1A.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2017.
The global macroeconomic environment has been challenging and inconsistent.
For example, emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in product orders in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, in fiscal 2017, and in certain prior periods.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.
Trust and confidence in us as an IT supplier is critical to the development and growth of our markets.
We have experienced periods of time during which shipments have exceeded net bookings or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns.
In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs.
In addition, our efforts to improve manufacturing lead-time performance may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog.
In addition, when facing component supply-related challenges we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations, which in turn contribute to an increase in purchase commitments.
We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels.
These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term.
Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods.
Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain other Infrastructure Platforms and Applications products, in addition to longer sales cycles.
Product orders from the service provider market could continue to decline and, as has been the case in the past, such weakness could persist over extended periods of time given fluctuating market conditions.
business conditions in the country of operations.
Such slowdowns may continue or recur in future periods.
Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors.
All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers.
Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, and distributors.
Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales.
Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of service providers are also systems integrators.
Distributors stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers.
We refer to sales through distributors as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer.
Revenue from distributors is generally recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them.
In addition, we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements.
Further, sales of our products outside of agreed territories can result in disruption to our distribution channels.
These market factors represent a competitive threat to us.
We compete with numerous vendors in each product category.
Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in newer product areas, and in key priority and growth areas.
hardware, referred to as "white box" hardware, to the extent customers decide to purchase those product offerings instead of ours.
As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions.
In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue.
Our competitors include Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Dell Technologies Inc.; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; FireEye, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Lenovo Group Limited; Microsoft Corporation; New Relic, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nutanix, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.; Symantec Corporation; Ubiquiti Networks and VMware, Inc.; among others.
Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed.
In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do.
We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products.
For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated.
Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, ASICs offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments.
Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center.
As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners.
As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies.
Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements.
When facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations.
Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market.
We have experienced longer than normal lead times in the past.
We have experienced component shortages in the past, including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations.
We may in the future experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers including capacity or cost problems resulting from industry consolidation, or strong demand in the industry for those parts.
Growth in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels and manufacturing capacity, especially for labor-intensive components, components for which we purchase a substantial portion of the supply, or the re-ramping of manufacturing capacity for highly complex products.
There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future.
Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could continue to be significant issues for us.
We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products.
During the normal course of business, in order to improve manufacturing lead-time performance and to help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements.
In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed.
When facing component supply-related challenges we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations, which in turn contributes to an increase in purchase commitments.
For additional information regarding our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Many of our strategic initiatives and investments we have made, and our architectural approach, are designed to enable the increased use of the network as the platform for automating, orchestrating, integrating, and delivering an ever-increasing array of IT-based products and services.
For example, in June 2017 we announced our Catalyst 9000 series of switches which represent the initial foundation of our intent-based networking capabilities.
Other current initiatives include our focus on security; the market transition related to digital transformation and IoT; the transition in cloud; and the move towards more programmable, flexible and virtual networks.
In particular, if our model of the evolution of networking does not emerge as we believe it will, or if the industry does not evolve as we believe it will, or if our strategy for addressing this evolution is not successful, many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value.
Our strategy is to lead our customers in their digital transition with solutions that deliver greater agility, productivity, security and other advanced network capabilities, and that intelligently connect nearly everything that can be connected.
Over the last few years, we have been transforming our business to move from selling individual products and services to selling products and services integrated into architectures and solutions, and we are seeking to meet the evolving needs of customers which include offering our products and solutions in the manner in which customers wish to consume them.
This could result in competitors, some of which may also be our strategic alliance partners, providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, revenue, and earnings.
Although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel with contract manufacturers and suppliers.
Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions.
Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings.
In August 2016, we announced a restructuring plan.
We began taking action under this plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017, and the plan has been substantially completed.
The implementation of this restructuring plan may be disruptive to our business, and following completion of the restructuring plan our business may not be more efficient or effective than prior to implementation of the plan.
While we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest in personnel and other resources related to our engineering, sales, service and marketing functions as we realign and dedicate resources on key priority and growth areas, such as Security and Applications, and we also intend to focus on maintaining leadership in Infrastructure Platforms and in Services.
Because of the rapid introduction of new products and changing customer requirements related to matters such as cost-effectiveness and security, we believe that there could be performance problems with Internet communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity and visibility.
Risks related to new product development also apply to acquisitions.
As we focus on new market opportunities and key priority and growth areas, we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies.
Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do.
Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past, especially in emerging countries.
Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future.
There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
Further, provision of greater levels of services, support and financing by us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition.
For example, as we add direct selling capabilities globally to meet changing customer demands, we will face increased legal and regulatory requirements.
There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years.
For example, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them with the ability to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center.
We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software.
Software typically contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations.
There can be no assurance that such remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact.
For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 we recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $125 million related to the expected remediation costs for anticipated failures in future periods of a widely-used component sourced from a third party which is included in several of our products, and in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 we recorded a pre-tax charge of $655 million related to the expected remediation costs for certain products sold in prior fiscal years containing memory components manufactured by a single supplier between 2005 and 2010.
Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States.
We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts.
Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements.
We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects.
Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.
Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks.
In the past, there have been significant bankruptcies among customers both on open credit and with loan or lease financing arrangements, particularly among Internet businesses and service providers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses.
There can be no assurance that additional losses will not be incurred.
We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such business terms.
However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk, because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to meet payment obligations.
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
Our portfolio includes fixed income securities and equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged.
For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital.
These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize.
Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
Historically, our primary exposures have related to nondollar-denominated sales in Japan, Canada, and Australia and certain nondollar-denominated operating expenses and service cost of sales in Europe, Latin America, and Asia, where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars.
Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility.
Currently, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and options to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables.
In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows.
Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants.
In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.
The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States.
to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled us to be successful.
It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products.
As is the case with leading products around the world, our products are subject to efforts by third parties to produce counterfeit versions of our products.
While we work diligently with law enforcement authorities in various countries to block the manufacture of counterfeit goods and to interdict their sale, and to detect counterfeit products in customer networks, and have succeeded in prosecuting counterfeiters and their distributors, resulting in fines, imprisonment and restitution to us, there can be no guarantee that such efforts will succeed.
Currently, few laws or regulations apply directly to access or commerce on the Internet.
We could be materially adversely affected by regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate.
Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using IP, encryption technology, sales or other taxes on Internet product or service sales, and access charges for Internet service providers.
Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate, in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products.
In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, including "net neutrality" rules to the extent they impact decisions on investment in network infrastructure.
Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply with various requirements and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and other regulatory authorities.
In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications and other industry authorities.
Our success has always depended in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel.
Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California.
Stock incentive plans are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us.
As a result of one or more of these factors, we may increase our hiring in geographic areas outside the United States, which could subject us to additional geopolitical and exchange rate risk.
The loss of services of any of our key personnel; the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future; or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions.
We have received these claims in the past and may receive additional claims to this effect in the future.
We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business.
Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations.
Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict.
For example, Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities which remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $257 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.6 billion for interest, and $1.2 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of January 27, 2018.
We have completed a thorough review of the matters and believe the asserted claims against our Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and we are defending the claims vigorously.
We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years.
For additional information regarding certain of the matters in which we are involved, see Item 1, “Legal Proceedings,” contained in Part II of this report.
measurement attribute prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an international association comprised of 35 countries, including the United States, has made changes to numerous long-standing tax principles.
Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity.
Additionally, a certain number of our facilities are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the past.
Also certain of our suppliers and logistics centers are located in regions that have been or may be affected by earthquake, tsunami and flooding activity which in the past has disrupted, and in the future could disrupt, the flow of components and delivery of products.
A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a hurricane, volcano, or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Despite our implementation of network security measures, the products and services we sell to customers, and our servers, data centers and the cloud-based solutions on which our data, and data of our customers, suppliers and business partners are stored, are vulnerable to cyber-attacks, data protection breaches, computer viruses, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or human error.
Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may be costly to implement and meet with resistance, and may not be successful.
Likewise, events such as loss of infrastructure and utilities services such as energy, transportation, or telecommunications could have similar negative impacts.
We have several strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and other companies with which we work to offer complementary products and services and in the past have established a joint venture to market services associated with our Cisco Unified Computing System products.
If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in industry growth.
However, alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas.
Joint ventures can be difficult to manage, given the potentially different interests of joint venture partners.
As of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $30.5 billion that mature at specific dates from calendar year 2018 through 2040.
We have also established a commercial paper program under which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $10.0 billion, and we had $9.0 billion in commercial paper notes outstanding under this program as of January 27, 2018.
The fair value of the long-term debt is subject to market interest rate volatility.
In addition, we will be required to have available in the United States sufficient cash to service the interest on our debt and repay all of our notes on maturity.
In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities, as well as the terms upon which we may borrow under our commercial paper program or future debt issuances.
