Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Available-for-Sale Debt Investments We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. Our primary objective for holding available-for-sale debt investments is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio. Conversely, declines in interest rates, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. We may utilize derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments to achieve our investment objectives. We had no outstanding hedging instruments for our available-for-sale debt investments as of January 26, 2019. Our available-for-sale debt investments are held for purposes other than trading. Our available-for-sale debt investments are not leveraged as of January 26, 2019. We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong.
Financing Receivables As of January 26, 2019, our financing receivables had a carrying value of $9.6 billion, compared with $9.8 billion as of July 28, 2018. As of January 26, 2019, a hypothetical 50 basis points (“BPS”) increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of our financing receivables by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.1 billion, respectively. 
Debt As of January 26, 2019, we had $25.8 billion in principal amount of senior notes outstanding, which consisted of $1.0 billion floating-rate notes and $24.8 billion fixed-rate notes. The carrying amount of the senior notes was $25.6 billion, and the related fair value based on market prices was $26.5 billion. As of January 26, 2019, a hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt, excluding the $6.8 billion of hedged debt, by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.5 billion, respectively. However, this hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt that is not hedged. 
Marketable Equity Investments. The fair value of our marketable equity investments is subject to market price volatility. We may hold equity securities for strategic purposes or to diversify our overall investment portfolio. These equity securities are held for purposes other than trading. To manage our exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, we may enter into equity derivatives designated as hedging instruments. As of January 26, 2019, the total fair value of our investments in marketable equity securities was $62 million.
We also enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities. The market risks associated with these foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables relate primarily to variances from our forecasted foreign currency transactions and balances. We do not enter into foreign exchange forward or option contracts for speculative purposes.
