Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Fixed Income Securities We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio.
We may utilize derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments to achieve our investment objectives.
We had no outstanding hedging instruments for our fixed income securities as of April 28, 2018.
Our fixed income investments are held for purposes other than trading.
Our fixed income investments are not leveraged as of April 28, 2018.
We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers.
We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong.
Financing Receivables As of April 28, 2018, our financing receivables had a carrying value of $9.8 billion, compared with $9.6 billion as of July 29, 2017.
As of April 28, 2018, a hypothetical 50 basis points (“BPS”) increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of our financing receivables by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.1 billion, respectively.
Debt As of April 28, 2018, we had $28.3 billion in principal amount of senior notes outstanding, which consisted of $1.9 billion floating-rate notes and $26.4 billion fixed-rate notes.
As of April 28, 2018, a hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt, excluding the $6.8 billion of hedged debt, by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.5 billion, respectively.
However, this hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt that is not hedged.
Investments in Privately Held Companies We have also invested in privately held companies.
These investments are recorded in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and are accounted for using primarily either the cost or the equity method.
As of April 28, 2018, the total carrying amount of our investments in privately held companies was $969 million, compared with $983 million at July 29, 2017.
Some of the privately held companies in which we invested are in the startup or development stages.
The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on revenue has not been material because our revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars.
We also enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities.
The market risks associated with these foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables relate primarily to variances from our forecasted foreign currency transactions and balances.
We do not enter into foreign exchange forward or option contracts for speculative purposes.
