See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
We have prepared the accompanying financial data as of April 27, 2019 and for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 28, 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
However, we believe that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018.
Our consolidated financial statements include our accounts and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to these investments, if any, are presented as a separate component from our equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The share of earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of April 27, 2019; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018; the statements of cash flows for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018; and the statements of equity for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, as applicable, have been made.
The results of operations for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full fiscal year or any future periods.
We have evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
ASC 606 supersedes nearly all U.S. GAAP on revenue recognition and eliminated industry-specific guidance.
The underlying principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
We have implemented new accounting policies, systems, processes, and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of ASC 606.
ASC 606 primarily impacts our revenue recognition for software arrangements and sales to two-tier distributors.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, ASC 606 requires incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services to which the assets relates.
We enter into contracts with customers that can include various combinations of products and services which are generally distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
As a result, our contracts may contain multiple performance obligations.
We determine whether arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether our commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract.
We classify our hardware, perpetual software licenses, and software-as-a-service (SaaS) as distinct performance obligations.
Term software licenses represent multiple obligations, which include software licenses and software maintenance.
In transactions where we deliver hardware or software, we are typically the principal and we record revenue and costs of goods sold on a gross basis.
We refer to our term software licenses, security software licenses, SaaS, and associated service arrangements as subscription offers.
We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised goods or services in a contract with a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
Transfer of control occurs once the customer has the contractual right to use the product, generally upon shipment or once delivery and risk of loss has transferred to the customer.
Transfer of control can also occur over time for software maintenance and services as the customer receives the benefit over the contract term.
Our hardware and perpetual software licenses are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control.
Term software licenses include multiple performance obligations where the term licenses are recognized upfront upon transfer of control, with the associated software maintenance revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as services and software updates are provided.
SaaS arrangements have one distinct performance obligation which is satisfied over time with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer consumes the services.
On our product sales, we record consideration from shipping and handling on a gross basis within net product sales.
Revenue is allocated among these performance obligations in a manner that reflects the consideration that we expect to be entitled to for the promised goods or services based on standalone selling prices (SSP).
SSP is estimated for each distinct performance obligation and judgment may be required in their determination.
The best evidence of SSP is the observable price of a product or service when we sell the goods separately in similar circumstances and to similar customers.
In instances where SSP is not directly observable, we determine SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs.
We apply judgment in determining the transaction price as we may be required to estimate variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize.
Variable consideration includes various rebate, cooperative marketing, and other incentive programs that we offer to our distributors, partners and customers.
We also consider the customers' right of return in determining the transaction price, where applicable.
We assess certain software licenses, such as for security software, that contain critical updates or upgrades which customers can download throughout the contract term.
For the additional disclosures required as part of ASC 606 see Note 3.
Financial Instruments In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
The most significant impact of this accounting standard update is that it requires the remeasurement of investments not accounted for under the equity method to be recorded at fair value through the Consolidated Statement of Operations at the end of each reporting period.
•Marketable equity securities have readily determinable fair value (RDFV) that are measured and recorded at fair value.
•Non-marketable equity securities do not have RDFV and are measured using a measurement alternative recorded at cost less any impairment, plus or minus changes resulting from qualifying observable price changes.
For certain of these securities, we have elected to apply the net asset value (NAV) practical expedient.
These investments are measured at cost less any impairment, plus or minus our share of equity method investee income or loss.
For our non-marketable equity securities measured using the measurement alternative, we applied the prospective method.
Refer to Opening Balance Adjustments below for the impact of adoption on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Income Taxes on Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets (other than inventory) at the transaction date.
We adopted this accounting standard update beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a modified retrospective basis.
The ongoing impact of this standard will be facts and circumstances dependent on any transactions within its scope.
Refer to Opening Balance Adjustments below for the impact of adoption on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Classification of Cash Flow Elements In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update related to the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows.
We adopted this accounting standard update beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a retrospective basis.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have an impact on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Restricted Cash in Statement of Cash Flows In November 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that provides guidance on the classification and presentation of changes in restricted cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires the assessment of fair value of individual assets and liabilities of a reporting unit to measure goodwill impairments.
Goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its fair value.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have any impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Definition of a Business In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that clarifies the definition of a business to help companies evaluate whether acquisition or disposal transactions should be accounted for as asset groups or as businesses.
We adopted this accounting standard update beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a prospective basis.
The impact of this accounting standard update will be fact dependent, but we expect that some transactions that were previously accounted for as business combinations or disposal transactions will be accounted for as asset purchases or asset sales under the accounting standard update.
The application of ASC 606 increased our total revenue by $146 million and $662 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively.
The application of ASC 606 did not have a material impact to either our cost of sales or our operating expenses in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019.
We recognized a $152 million benefit to our provision for income taxes relating to indirect effects from the adoption of ASC 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
For additional information regarding ASC 606, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In connection with the adoption of ASC 606, we recorded a transition adjustment to increase retained earnings by $2.3 billion.
As of April 27, 2019, the balance sheet changes attributable to ASC 606 related to accounts receivable, inventories, and deferred revenue were not materially different than the impacts upon adoption.
In connection with the adoption of ASC 606, we established contract assets for unbilled receivables.
As of April 27, 2019, we had total contract assets of $637 million, of which $254 million was recorded in other current assets and $383 million was recorded in other assets.
As of April 27, 2019, we had total capitalized contract acquisition costs of $705 million, of which $390 million was recorded in other current assets and $315 million was recorded in other assets.
The adoption of ASC 606 did not have any impact on net cash provided by operating activities.
Leases In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update and subsequent amendments related to leases requiring lessees to recognize operating and financing lease liabilities on the balance sheet, as well as corresponding right-of-use assets.
In addition, disclosures will be required to enable users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The accounting standard update will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and early adoption is permitted.
We expect to adopt this accounting standard update on a modified retrospective basis in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and we are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accounting standard update will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and early adoption in fiscal 2020 is permitted.
We expect to adopt this accounting standard update on a modified retrospective basis in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, and we are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Amounts may not sum due to rounding.
Applications consists of offerings that utilize the core networking and data center platforms to provide their functions.
Our perpetual software and hardware in this category are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control.
Term software licenses are multiple performance obligations where the term license is recognized upfront upon transfer of control with the associated software maintenance revenue recognized ratably over the contract term.
Updates and upgrades for the term software licenses are critical for our software to perform its intended commercial purpose because of the continuous need for our software to secure our customers' network environments against frequent threats.
Therefore, security software licenses are generally represented by a single distinct performance obligation with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term.
Our hardware and perpetual software in this category are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control.
On May 1, 2018, we announced a definitive agreement to sell the SPVSS business.
These products include both hardware and software licenses.
Our offerings in this category are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control.
In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service and support options for our customers, including technical support services and advanced services.
Advanced services are distinct performance obligations that are satisfied over time with revenue recognized as services are delivered.
The sales arrangements as discussed above are typically made pursuant to customer purchase orders based on master purchase or partner agreements.
We provide financing arrangements to customers for all of our hardware, software and service offerings.
For these arrangements, cash is typically received over time.
Contract assets consist of unbilled receivables and are recorded when revenue is recognized in advance of scheduled billings to our customers.
These amounts are primarily related to software and service arrangements where transfer of control has occurred but we have not yet invoiced.
As of April 27, 2019 and July 29, 2018, our contract assets for these unbilled receivables were $637 million and $122 million, respectively, and were included in other current assets and other assets.
Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue.
In connection with the adoption of ASC 606, we recorded an adjustment to retained earnings to reduce deferred revenue by $2.8 billion.
We recognized approximately $2.0 billion and $8.0 billion of revenue during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, that was included in the deferred revenue balance at July 29, 2018.
Remaining Performance Obligations (RPO) are comprised of deferred revenue plus unbilled contract revenue.
We expect approximately 56% of this amount to be recognized as revenue over the next year.
Unbilled contract revenue represents non-cancelable contracts for which we have not invoiced, have an obligation to perform, and revenue has not yet been recognized in the financial statements.
In connection with the adoption of ASC 606, we began to capitalize direct and incremental costs incurred to acquire contracts, primarily sales commissions, for which the associated revenue is expected to be recognized in future periods.
We incur these costs in connection with both initial contracts and renewals.
These costs are initially deferred and typically amortized over the term of the customer contract which corresponds to the period of benefit.
Deferred sales commissions were $705 million and $644 million as of April 27, 2019 and July 29, 2018, respectively, and were included in other current assets and other assets.
The amortization expense associated with these costs was $124 million and $349 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, and was included in sales and marketing expenses.
Revenue from the Duo acquisition has been included in our Security product category.
On February 6, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Luxtera, Inc. ("Luxtera"), a privately held semiconductor company.
Revenue from the Luxtera acquisition has been included in our Infrastructure Platforms product category.
The goodwill is generally not deductible for income tax purposes.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each acquisition from the date of acquisition.
Pro forma results of operations and the revenue and net income subsequent to the acquisition date for the acquisitions completed during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 have not been presented because the effects of the acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our financial results.
This business had tangible assets of approximately $160 million (primarily comprised of accounts receivables, inventories and various other current and long-term assets) and net intangible assets and goodwill (based on relative fair value) of $340 million.
In addition, the business had total liabilities of approximately $200 million (primarily comprised of deferred revenue and various other current and long-term liabilities).
We recognized an immaterial gain from this transaction in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
We completed two divestitures during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The financial statement impact of these divestitures was not material for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
5.Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets
“Other” in the table above primarily consists of foreign currency translation as well as immaterial purchase accounting adjustments.
Purchased intangible assets include intangible assets acquired through acquisitions as well as through direct purchases or licenses.
We initiated a restructuring plan during fiscal 2018 (the "Fiscal 2018 Plan") in order to realign the organization and enable further investment in key priority areas with estimated pretax charges of approximately $600 million.
These aggregate pretax charges are primarily cash-based and consist of employee severance and other one-time termination benefits, and other associated costs.
In connection with the Fiscal 2018 Plan, we have incurred charges of $18 million and $282 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, and have incurred cumulative charges of $390 million.
We expect the Fiscal 2018 Plan to be substantially completed in the first half of fiscal 2020.
We announced a restructuring plan in August 2016 (the "Fiscal 2017 Plan"), in order to reinvest in our key priority areas.
In connection with the Fiscal 2017 Plan, we incurred cumulative charges of approximately $1.0 billion, which were primarily cash-based and consisted of employee severance and other one-time termination benefits, and other associated costs.
We completed the Fiscal 2017 Plan in fiscal 2018.
Lease receivables represent sales-type and direct-financing leases resulting from the sale of Cisco’s and complementary third-party products and are typically collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets.
Loan receivables represent financing arrangements related to the sale of our hardware, software, and services, which may include additional funding for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.
Revenue related to the technical support services is typically deferred and included in deferred service revenue and is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed, which typically ranges from one to three years.
Actual cash collections may differ from the contractual maturities due to early customer buyouts, refinancings, or defaults.
Our internal credit risk ratings of 1 through 4 correspond to investment-grade ratings, while credit risk ratings of 5 and 6 correspond to non-investment grade ratings.
Credit risk ratings of 7 and higher correspond to substandard ratings.
The data in the preceding tables is presented by contract, and the aging classification of each contract is based on the oldest outstanding receivable, and therefore past due amounts also include unbilled and current receivables within the same contract.
The balances of either unbilled or current financing receivables included in the category of 91 days plus past due for financing receivables were $249 million and $503 million as of April 27, 2019 and July 28, 2018, respectively.
As of April 27, 2019, we had financing receivables of $231 million, net of unbilled or current receivables, that were in the category of 91 days plus past due but remained on accrual status as they are well secured and in the process of collection.
We assess the allowance for credit loss related to financing receivables on either an individual or a collective basis.
We consider various factors in evaluating lease and loan receivables and the earned portion of financed service contracts for possible impairment on an individual basis.
These factors include our historical experience, credit quality and age of the receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer’s ability to pay.
All such outstanding amounts, including any accrued interest, will be assessed and fully reserved at the customer level.
Our internal credit risk ratings are categorized as 1 through 10, with the lowest credit risk rating representing the highest quality financing receivables.
Typically, we also consider receivables with a risk rating of 8 or higher to be impaired and will include them in the individual assessment for allowance.
We evaluate the remainder of our financing receivables portfolio for impairment on a collective basis and record an allowance for credit loss at the portfolio segment level.
frequency rates published by a major third-party credit-rating agency as well as our own historical loss rate in the event of default, while also systematically giving effect to economic conditions, concentration of risk, and correlation.
9.Available-for-Sale Debt Investments and Equity Investments
Non-U.S. government and agency securities include agency and corporate debt securities that are guaranteed by non-U.S. governments.
There were no impairment charges related to our available-for-sale debt investments for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, and for the corresponding periods of fiscal 2018.
For available-for-sale debt investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of April 27, 2019, we have determined that no other-than-temporary impairments were required to be recognized.
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.
We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available-for-sale debt investments.
These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis.
We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets.
We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against collateral losses.
We did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the periods presented.
As of April 27, 2019 and July 28, 2018, we had no outstanding securities lending transactions.
In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies and provide financing to certain customers.
These privately held companies and customers are evaluated for consolidation under the variable interest or voting interest entity models.
As of April 27, 2019, the carrying value of investments in privately held companies was $1.3 billion.
$683 million of such investments are considered to be in variable interest entities which are unconsolidated.
We have total funding commitments of $345 million related to these privately held investments, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand.
The carrying value of these investments and the additional funding commitments collectively represent our maximum exposure related to these privately held investments.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Level 1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets); or model-derived valuations in which significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.
Level 3 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
These assets were measured at fair value due to events or circumstances we identified as having significant impact on their fair value during the respective periods.
The carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities recorded to fair value on a non-recurring basis is adjusted for observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer or impairment.
observable transaction price at the transaction date and other unobservable inputs such as volatility, rights, and obligations of the securities we hold.
The fair value for purchased intangible assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis was categorized as Level 3 due to the use of significant unobservable inputs in the valuation.
Significant unobservable inputs that were used included expected revenues and net income related to the assets and the expected life of the assets.
The difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of the assets was recorded as an impairment charge, which was included in product cost of sales and operating expenses as applicable.
The remaining carrying value of the specific purchased intangible assets that were impaired was zero as of April 28, 2018.
The fair value measurement was categorized as Level 3, as significant unobservable inputs were used in the valuation report.
The impairment charge as a result of the valuations, which represented the difference between the fair value less cost to sell and the carrying amount of the assets held for sale, was included in restructuring and other charges.
The remaining carrying value of property held for sale that was impaired was zero as of April 28, 2018.
The estimated fair value of long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts approximates their carrying value.
We use significant unobservable inputs in determining discounted cash flows to estimate the fair value of our long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts, and therefore they are categorized as Level 3.
As of April 27, 2019, the estimated fair value of our short-term debt approximates its carrying value due to the short maturities.
As of April 27, 2019, the fair value of our senior notes and other long-term debt was $21.6 billion with a carrying amount of $20.4 billion.
The fair value of the senior notes and other long-term debt was determined based on observable market prices in a less active market and was categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $10.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper notes.
We use the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes.
The effective rates for the short- and long-term debt include the interest on the notes, the accretion of the discount, the issuance costs, and, if applicable, adjustments related to hedging.
We entered into interest rate swaps in prior periods with an aggregate notional amount of $4.5 billion designated as fair value hedges of certain of our fixed-rate senior notes.
The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market interest rates.
For additional information, see Note 12.
Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes and payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes.
Each of the senior fixed-rate notes is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium.
The senior notes rank at par with the commercial paper notes that may be issued in the future pursuant to our short-term debt financing program, as discussed above under “(a) Short-Term Debt.” As of April 27, 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants.
This credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants, including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement.
As of April 27, 2019, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under this credit facility.
We use derivative instruments primarily to manage exposures to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and equity price risks.
Our primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices.
Our derivatives expose us to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement.
We do, however, seek to mitigate such risks by limiting our counterparties to major financial institutions.
In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored.
Management does not expect material losses as a result of defaults by counterparties.
As of April 27, 2019, we estimate that approximately $3 million of net derivative gains related to our cash flow hedges included in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months when the underlying hedged item impacts earnings.
Therefore, we are exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
To limit the exposure related to foreign currency changes, we enter into foreign currency contracts.
We do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes.
We hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions related to certain revenues, operating expenses and service cost of sales with currency options and forward contracts.
These currency options and forward contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 24 months.
We assess effectiveness based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives.
The effective portion of the derivative instrument’s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings.
The ineffective portion, if any, of the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately.
During the periods presented, we did not discontinue any cash flow hedges for which it was probable that a forecasted transaction would not occur.
We enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities such as foreign currency receivables, including long-term customer financings, investments, and payables.
Gains and losses on the contracts are included in other income (loss), net, and substantially offset foreign exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement of intercompany balances or other current assets, investments, or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting entity.
Interest Rate Derivatives, Investments Our primary objective for holding available-for-sale debt investments is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk.
To realize these objectives, we may utilize interest rate swaps or other derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges.
As of April 27, 2019 and July 28, 2018, we did not have any outstanding interest rate derivatives related to our available-for-sale debt investments.
In prior fiscal years, we entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges related to fixed-rate senior notes that are due in fiscal 2020 through 2025.
Under these interest rate swaps, we receive fixed-rate interest payments and make interest payments based on LIBOR plus a fixed number of basis points.
The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are included in interest expense and substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market interest rates.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps was reflected in other assets and other current and long-term liabilities.
The marketable equity securities in our portfolio are subject to price risk.
To manage our exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, we have periodically entered into equity derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges.
The changes in the value of the hedging instruments are included in other income (loss), net, and offset the change in the fair value of the underlying hedged investment.
In addition, we periodically enter into equity derivatives that are not designated as accounting hedges.
The changes in the fair value of these derivatives are also included in other income (loss), net.
Although not designated as accounting hedges, we utilize derivatives such as total return swaps to economically hedge this exposure.
In addition, hedge ineffectiveness for fair value, cash flow, and net investment hedges was not material for any of the periods presented.
We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products.
During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or establish the parameters defining our requirements.
A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments.
Certain of these purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers relate to arrangements to secure long-term pricing for certain product components for multi-year periods.
In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed.
As of April 27, 2019 and July 28, 2018, the liability for these purchase commitments was $129 million and $159 million, respectively, and was included in other current liabilities.
In connection with our acquisitions, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones or upon the continued employment with Cisco of certain employees of the acquired entities.
As of April 27, 2019, we estimated that future cash compensation expense of up to $512 million may be required to be recognized pursuant to the applicable business combination agreements.
We also have certain funding commitments, primarily related to our non-marketable equity and other investments, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand.
Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty.
In the ordinary course of business, we provide financing guarantees for various third-party financing arrangements extended to channel partners and end-user customers.
These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and, in some cases, we guarantee a portion of these arrangements.
The balance of the channel partner financing subject to guarantees was $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion as of April 27, 2019 and July 28, 2018, respectively.
The volume of financing provided by third parties for leases and loans as to which we had provided guarantees was $1 million and $3 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, and was $11 million and $29 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In the normal course of business, we indemnify other parties, including customers, lessors, and parties to other transactions with us, with respect to certain matters.
These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim.
We have been asked to indemnify Time Warner Cable (“TWC”) for patent infringement claims asserted against it by Sprint Communications Company, L.P. (“Sprint”) in federal court in Kansas.
Sprint alleges that TWC infringed certain Sprint patents by offering VoIP telephone services utilizing products provided by us generally in combination with those of other manufacturers.
Sprint seeks monetary damages.
Following a trial on March 3, 2017, a jury in Kansas found that TWC willfully infringed five Sprint patents and awarded Sprint $139.8 million in damages.
On May 30, 2017, the Court awarded Sprint $20.3 million in pre-judgment interest and denied TWC's post-trial motions.
TWC filed a petition for rehearing en banc on January 29, 2019, which was denied on March 19, 2019.
At this time, we do not believe that our indemnity obligations under our agreement would be material.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we recorded legal and indemnification settlement charges of $127 million to product cost of sales related to prior indemnification matters resolved in fiscal 2018.
In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our Amended and Restated Bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents.
It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to our limited history with prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of our former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $206 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.3 billion for interest, and $1.0 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of April 27, 2019.
We have completed a thorough review of the matters and believe the asserted claims against our Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and we are defending the claims vigorously.
We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years.
SRI International  On September 4, 2013, SRI International, Inc. (“SRI”) asserted patent infringement claims against us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, accusing our products and services in the area of network intrusion detection of infringing two U.S. patents.
The trial on these claims began on May 2, 2016 and, on May 12, 2016, the jury returned a verdict finding willful infringement of the asserted patents.
The jury awarded SRI damages of $23.7 million.
On May 25, 2017, the Court awarded SRI enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees, entered judgment in the new amount of $57.0 million, and ordered an ongoing royalty of 3.5% through the expiration of the patents in 2018.
We appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on various grounds.
On March 20, 2019, the Federal Circuit vacated the enhanced damages award; vacated and remanded in part the willful infringement finding; and affirmed the district court's other findings.
Cisco filed a petition for rehearing with the Federal Circuit on May 10, 2019.
While the ultimate outcome of the case may still result in a loss, we do not expect it to be material.
Straight Path On September 24, 2014, Straight Path IP Group, Inc. (“Straight Path”) asserted patent infringement claims against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, accusing our 9971 IP Phone, Unified Communications Manager working in conjunction with 9971 IP Phones, and Video Communication Server products of infringement.
On November 13, 2017, the Court granted our motion for summary judgment of non-infringement, thereby dismissing Straight Path's claims against us and cancelling a trial which had been set for March 12, 2018.
Arista Networks, Inc. As reported in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018 we received a payment of $400 million from Arista Networks, Inc. ("Arista") in connection with the settlement of litigation.
The payment was recognized in general and administrative expenses in our first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Oyster Optics On November 24, 2016, Oyster Optics, LLC (“Oyster”) asserted patent infringement claims against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
Oyster alleges that certain Cisco ONS 15454 and NCS 2000 line cards infringe U.S. Patent No.
7,620,327 (“the ‘327 Patent”).
Oyster seeks monetary damages.
Oyster filed infringement claims based on the ‘327 Patent against other defendants, including ZTE, Nokia, NEC, Infinera, Huawei, Ciena, Alcatel-Lucent, and Fujitsu, and the court consolidated the cases alleging infringement of the ‘327 Patent.
The court vacated the November 4, 2018 trial date set for Oyster's claims against Cisco and one other remaining defendant, pending resolution of Oyster's appeal of the court's summary judgment ruling dismissing certain of Oyster's claims.
Due to uncertainty surrounding patent litigation processes, we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation at this time.
However, we do not anticipate that any final outcome of the dispute would be material.
For additional information regarding intellectual property litigation, see “Part II, Item 1A.
We declared and paid cash dividends of $0.35 and $0.33 per common share, or $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion, on our outstanding common stock for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively.
We declared and paid cash dividends of $1.01 and $0.91 per common share, or $4.5 billion and $4.4 billion, on our outstanding common stock for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively.
There were $200 million and $180 million of stock repurchases that were pending settlement as of April 27, 2019 and July 28, 2018, respectively.
The purchase price for the shares of our stock repurchased is reflected as a reduction to shareholders’ equity.
We are required to allocate the purchase price of the repurchased shares as (i) a reduction to retained earnings and (ii) a reduction of common stock and additional paid-in capital.
Under the terms of our Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may determine the rights, preferences, and terms of our authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock.
2005 Plan  As of April 27, 2019, the maximum number of shares issuable under the 2005 Plan over its term was 694 million shares, plus shares from certain previous plans that are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled.
If any awards granted under the 2005 Plan are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, the unexercised or unsettled shares underlying the awards will again be available under the 2005 Plan.
In addition, starting November 19, 2013, shares withheld by Cisco from an award other than a stock option or stock appreciation right to satisfy withholding tax liabilities resulting from such award will again be available for issuance, based on the fungible share ratio in effect on the date of grant.
Pursuant to an amendment approved by our shareholders on November 12, 2009, the number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan is reduced by 1.5 shares for each share awarded as a stock grant or a stock unit, and any shares underlying awards outstanding from certain previous plans that expire unexercised at the end of their maximum terms become available for reissuance under the 2005 Plan.
The 2005 Plan permits the granting of stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units ("RSUs"), the vesting of which may be performance-based or market-based along with the requisite service requirement, and stock appreciation rights to employees (including employee directors and officers), consultants of Cisco and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and non-employee directors of Cisco.
Stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under the 2005 Plan have an exercise price of at least 100% of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date.
The expiration date for stock options and stock appreciation rights shall be no later than 10 years from the grant date.
We have an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which includes its subplan named the International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (together, the “Purchase Plan”), under which 721 million shares of our common stock have been reserved for issuance as of April 27, 2019.
Employees may purchase a limited number of shares of our stock at a discount of up to 15% of the lesser of the market value at the beginning of the offering period or the end of each 6-month purchase period.
The Purchase Plan is scheduled to terminate on the earlier of (i) January 3, 2030 and (ii) the date on which all shares available for issuance under the Purchase Plan are sold pursuant to exercised purchase rights.
No shares were issued under the Purchase Plan during each of the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
As of April 27, 2019, the total compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards not yet recognized was $2.9 billion which is expected to be recognized over approximately 2.8 years on a weighted-average basis.
For each share awarded as restricted stock or a restricted stock unit award under the 2005 Plan, 1.5 shares was deducted from the available share-based award balance.
For restricted stock units that were awarded with vesting contingent upon the achievement of future financial performance or market-based metrics, the maximum awards that can be achieved upon full vesting of such awards were reflected in the preceding table.
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on our closing stock price of $55.88 as of April 26, 2019.
The total number of in-the-money stock options exercisable as of April 27, 2019 was 2 million.
As of July 28, 2018, 4 million outstanding stock options were exercisable and the weighted-average exercise price was $6.84.
For the awards based on financial performance metrics or comparative market-based returns, generally 50% of the PRSUs are earned based on the average of annual operating cash flow and earnings per share goals established at the beginning of each fiscal year over a three-year performance period.
Generally, the remaining 50% of the PRSUs are earned based on our TSR measured against the benchmark TSR of a peer group over the same period.
Each PRSU recipient could vest in 0% to 150% of the target shares granted contingent on the achievement of our financial performance metrics or our comparative market-based returns and 0% to 100% of the target shares granted contingent on the achievement of non-financial operating goals.
The effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 includes a $152 million tax benefit relating to indirect effects from adoption of ASC 606 at the beginning of fiscal 2019.
This benefit may be reduced or eliminated in future legislation.
If such legislation is enacted, we will record the impact of the legislation in the quarter of enactment.
As of April 27, 2019, we had $1.8 billion of unrecognized tax benefit, of which $1.6 billion, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective tax rate.
Specific positions that may be resolved include issues involving transfer pricing and various other matters.
We estimate that the unrecognized tax benefits at April 27, 2019 could be reduced by approximately $50 million in the next 12 months.
18.Segment Information and Major Customers
Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
Revenue in the United States was $6.8 billion and $6.2 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $20.2 billion and $18.8 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use.
The majority of our assets was attributable to our U.S. operations as of each of April 27, 2019 and July 28, 2018.
19.Net Income (Loss) per Share
Employee equity share options, unvested shares, and similar equity instruments granted and assumed by Cisco are treated as potential common shares outstanding in computing diluted earnings per share.
Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money options, unvested restricted stock, and restricted stock units.
Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options and the amount of compensation cost for future service that has not yet recognized are collectively assumed to be used to repurchase shares.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we excluded the impact of potential common shares from the calculation of net income (loss) per share as the inclusion would have had an antidilutive effect.
For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, see Note 13 "Commitments and Contingencies—(g) Legal Proceedings" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018.
The global macroeconomic environment has been challenging and inconsistent.
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the pending United Kingdom “Brexit” withdrawal from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
For example, emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in product orders in certain prior periods.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.
Trust and confidence in us as an IT supplier is critical to the development and growth of our markets.
Our revenue may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or decline as it did in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and in certain prior periods on a year-over-year basis.
We have experienced periods of time during which shipments have exceeded net bookings or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns.
In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs.
In addition, our efforts to improve manufacturing lead-time performance may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog.
In addition, when facing component supply-related challenges we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations, which in turn contribute to an increase in purchase commitments.
We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels.
These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term.
Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods.
Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain other Infrastructure Platforms and Applications products, in addition to longer sales cycles.
Product orders from the service provider market could continue to decline and, as has been the case in the past, such weakness could persist over extended periods of time given fluctuating market conditions.
Such slowdowns may continue or recur in future periods.
Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors.
All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers.
Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, and distributors.
Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales.
Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of service providers are also systems integrators.
Distributors stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers.
We refer to sales through distributors as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer.
In addition, we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements.
Further, sales of our products outside of agreed territories can result in disruption to our distribution channels.
These market factors represent a competitive threat to us.
We compete with numerous vendors in each product category.
Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in newer product areas, and in key priority and growth areas.
As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions.
In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue.
Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed.
In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do.
We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products.
For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated.
Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, ASICs offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments.
Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center.
As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners.
As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies.
Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements.
When facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations.
Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market.
We have experienced longer than normal lead times in the past.
We have experienced component shortages in the past, including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations.
We may in the future experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers including capacity or cost problems resulting from industry consolidation, or strong demand in the industry for those parts.
Growth in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels and manufacturing capacity, especially for labor-intensive components, components for which we purchase a substantial portion of the supply, or the re-ramping of manufacturing capacity for highly complex products.
There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future.
Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could continue to be significant issues for us.
We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products.
During the normal course of business, in order to improve manufacturing lead-time performance and to help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements.
In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed.
When facing component supply-related challenges we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations, which in turn contributes to an increase in purchase commitments.
For additional information regarding our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Many of our strategic initiatives and investments we have made, and our architectural approach, are designed to enable the increased use of the network as the platform for automating, orchestrating, integrating, and delivering an ever-increasing array of IT-based products and services.
For example, in June 2017 we announced our Catalyst 9000 series of switches which represent the initial foundation of our intent-based networking capabilities.
Other current initiatives include our focus on security; the market transition related to digital transformation and IoT; the transition in cloud; and the move towards more programmable, flexible and virtual networks.
In particular, if our model of the evolution of networking does not emerge as we believe it will, or if the industry does not evolve as we believe it will, or if our strategy for addressing this evolution is not successful, many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value.
Our strategy is to lead our customers in their digital transition with solutions that deliver greater agility, productivity, security and other advanced network capabilities, and that intelligently connect nearly everything that can be connected.
Over the last few years, we have been transforming our business to move from selling individual products and services to selling products and services integrated into architectures and solutions, and we are seeking to meet the evolving needs of customers which include offering our products and solutions in the manner in which customers wish to consume them.
This could result in competitors, some of which may also be our strategic alliance partners, providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, revenue, and earnings.
of or otherwise exit businesses, may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction or restructuring costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products.
Although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel with contract manufacturers and suppliers.
Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions.
Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings.
We initiated a restructuring plan in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and expanded it in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The implementation of this restructuring plan may be disruptive to our business, and following completion of the restructuring plan our business may not be more efficient or effective than prior to implementation of the plan.
While we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest in personnel and other resources related to our engineering, sales, service and marketing functions as we realign and dedicate resources on key priority and growth areas, such as Security and Applications, and we also intend to focus on maintaining leadership in Infrastructure Platforms and in Services.
Because of the rapid introduction of new products and changing customer requirements related to matters such as cost-effectiveness and security, we believe that there could be performance problems with Internet communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity and visibility.
Risks related to new product development also apply to acquisitions.
As we focus on new market opportunities and key priority and growth areas, we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies.
Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do.
Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past, especially in emerging countries.
Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future.
There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
Further, provision of greater levels of services, support and financing by us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition.
For example, as we add direct selling capabilities globally to meet changing customer demands, we will face increased legal and regulatory requirements.
There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years.
For example, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them with the ability to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center.
We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software.
Software typically contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations.
There can be no assurance that such remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact.
For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 we recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $125 million related to the expected remediation costs for anticipated failures in future periods of a widely-used component sourced from a third party which is included in several of our products, and in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 we recorded a pre-tax charge of $655 million related to the expected remediation costs for certain products sold in prior fiscal years containing memory components manufactured by a single supplier between 2005 and 2010.
Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States.
We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts.
Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements.
We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects.
Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.
Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks.
In the past, there have been significant bankruptcies among customers both on open credit and with loan or lease financing arrangements, particularly among Internet businesses and service providers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses.
There can be no assurance that additional losses will not be incurred.
We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such business terms.
However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk, because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to meet payment obligations.
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
Our portfolio includes available-for-sale debt investments and equity investments, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged.
Available-for-sale debt investments are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
Securities classified as marketable equity are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with gains or losses recorded to interest and other income (loss), net.
These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize.
For information regarding the market risks associated with the fair value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”
Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
Historically, our primary exposures have related to nondollar-denominated sales in Japan, Canada, and Australia and certain nondollar-denominated operating expenses and service cost of sales in Europe, Latin America, and Asia, where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars.
Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility.
Currently, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and options to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables.
In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows.
Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants.
In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.
The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States.
It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products.
As is the case with leading products around the world, our products are subject to efforts by third parties to produce counterfeit versions of our products.
While we work diligently with law enforcement authorities in various countries to block the manufacture of counterfeit goods and to interdict their sale, and to detect counterfeit products in customer networks, and have succeeded in prosecuting counterfeiters and their distributors, resulting in fines, imprisonment and restitution to us, there can be no guarantee that such efforts will succeed.
Currently, few laws or regulations apply directly to access or commerce on the Internet.
We could be materially adversely affected by regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate.
Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using IP, encryption technology, sales or other taxes on Internet product or service sales, and access charges for Internet service providers.
Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate, in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products.
In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, including "net neutrality" rules to the extent they impact decisions on investment in network infrastructure.
Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply with various requirements and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and other regulatory authorities.
In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications and other industry authorities.
Our success has always depended in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel.
Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California.
Stock incentive plans are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us.
As a result of one or more of these factors, we may increase our hiring in geographic areas outside the United States, which could subject us to additional geopolitical and exchange rate risk.
The loss of services of any of our key personnel; the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future; or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions.
We have received these claims in the past and may receive additional claims to this effect in the future.
We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business.
Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations.
Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict.
For example, Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities which remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $206 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.3 billion for interest, and $1.0 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of April 27, 2019.
We have completed a thorough review of the matters and believe the asserted claims against our Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and we are defending the claims vigorously.
We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years.
For additional information regarding certain of the matters in which we are involved, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, subsection (g) “Legal Proceedings.”
Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an international association comprised of 36 countries, including the United States, has made changes to numerous long-standing tax principles.
Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity.
Additionally, a certain number of our facilities are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the past.
Also certain of our suppliers and logistics centers are located in regions that have been or may be affected by earthquake, tsunami and flooding activity which in the past has disrupted, and in the future could disrupt, the flow of components and delivery of products.
A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a hurricane, volcano, or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
The products and services we sell to customers, and our cloud-based solutions, inevitably contain vulnerabilities or critical security defects which have not been remedied and cannot be disclosed without compromising security.
We may also make prioritization decisions in determining which vulnerabilities or security defects to fix, and the timing of these fixes, which could result in an exploit which compromises security.
Customers also need to test security releases before they can be deployed which can delay implementation.
In addition, we rely on third-party providers of software and cloud-based service and we cannot control the rate at which they remedy vulnerabilities.
Customers may also not deploy a security release, or decide not to upgrade to the latest versions of our products, services or cloud-based solutions containing the release, leaving them vulnerable.
Vulnerabilities and critical security defects, prioritization errors in remedying vulnerabilities or security defects, failure of third-party providers to remedy vulnerabilities or security defects, or customers not deploying security releases or deciding not to upgrade products, services or solutions could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise harm our business.
Likewise, events such as loss of infrastructure and utilities services such as energy, transportation, or telecommunications could have similar negative impacts.
We have several strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and other companies with which we work to offer complementary products and services and in the past have established a joint venture to market services associated with our Cisco Unified Computing System products.
If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in industry growth.
However, alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas.
Joint ventures can be difficult to manage, given the potentially different interests of joint venture partners.
As of the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $20.5 billion that mature at specific dates from calendar year 2019 through 2040.
We have also established a commercial paper program under which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $10.0 billion, and we had $3.3 billion in commercial paper notes outstanding under this program as of April 27, 2019.
The fair value of the long-term debt is subject to market interest rate volatility.
In addition, we will be required to have available in the United States sufficient cash to service the interest on our debt and repay all of our notes on maturity.
In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities, as well as the terms upon which we may borrow under our commercial paper program or future debt issuances.
