Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that have been powering the Internet since 1984. Across networking, security, collaboration and the cloud, our evolving intent-based technologies are constantly learning and adapting to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business. 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we saw broad strength across the business and delivered solid revenue growth, strong margins and operating cash flows. We remain focused on accelerating innovation across our portfolio, and we believe that we have made continued progress on our strategic priorities. We experienced solid revenue growth in Security and Applications and modest growth in Infrastructure Platforms, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions. We continue to operate in a challenging and highly competitive environment, which has negatively impacted certain of our offerings within our Infrastructure Platforms product category. We continued to see weakness in the service provider market and we expect ongoing uncertainty in that area. While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term. 
Total revenue increased by 3% compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017. Within total revenue, product and service revenue each increased by 3%. Total gross margin increased by 0.3 percentage points, driven by productivity improvements and favorable product mix partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing. As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, collectively, decreased by 0.2 percentage points. Operating income as a percentage of revenue increased by 0.9 percentage points. We had a net loss of $8.8 billion and a net loss per share of $1.78, primarily due to the $11.1 billion provisional tax expense related to the Tax Act, comprised of $9.0 billion U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax, and $0.9 billion of net deferred tax assets re-measurement.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $344 million, driven in large part by product revenue growth in the United States. EMEA revenue decreased by $3 million, led by a product revenue decline in the United Kingdom. Revenue in our APJC segment decreased by $34 million, led by a product revenue decline in Japan. The “BRICM” countries experienced product revenue growth of 2% in the aggregate, driven by increased product revenue in the emerging countries of China, Russia and Brazil of 8%, 17% and 11%, respectively, partially offset by product revenue declines in India and Mexico of 11% and 4%, respectively.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced product revenue growth in the public sector and commercial markets, partially offset by a product revenue decline in the service provider market. Product revenue in the enterprise market was flat. 
From a product category perspective, product revenue increased 3% led by solid product revenue growth in Security and Applications, which each grew by 6%. We experienced a 2% product revenue increase in Infrastructure Platforms and we saw broad strength across the portfolio. 
Total revenue was flat, with product revenue flat and service revenue increasing 2%. Total gross margin decreased by 1.2 percentage points due to unfavorable impacts from pricing and a $127 million legal and indemnification settlement charge, partially offset by productivity benefits and favorable product mix. As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses collectively decreased by 0.1 percentage points. Operating income as a percentage of revenue increased by 0.2 percentage points. We had a net loss of $6.4 billion and a net loss per share of $1.29, due primarily to the $11.1 billion provisional tax expense related to the Tax Act as discussed above.
•Delivery has occurred. Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery. For software, delivery is considered to have occurred upon unrestricted license access and license term commencement, when applicable.
•Collectibility is reasonably assured. We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customer’s payment history.
In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. When a sale involves multiple deliverables, such as sales of products that include services, the multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine the unit of accounting, and the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the relative selling price. Revenue is recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for each unit of accounting are met. For hosting arrangements, we recognize revenue ratably over the hosting period, while usage revenue is recognized based on utilization. Software subscription revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the subscription term upon delivery of the first product and commencement of the term. 
The amount of revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our valuation of the units of accounting. Our multiple element arrangements may contain only deliverables within the scope of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition, deliverables within the scope of ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition, or a combination of both. According to the accounting guidance prescribed in ASC 605, we use vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) for each of those units, when available. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the historical standalone transactions have the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median rates. When VSOE does not exist, we apply the selling price hierarchy to applicable multiple-deliverable arrangements. Under the selling price hierarchy, third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) will be considered if VSOE does not exist, and estimated selling price (ESP) will be used if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Generally, we are not able to determine TPE because our go-to-market strategy differs from that of others in our markets, and the extent of our proprietary technology varies among comparable products or services from those of our peers. In determining ESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the characteristics of the deliverable. We typically arrive at an ESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company-specific factors such as geographies, competitive landscape, internal costs, profitability objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting. 
The allowance for credit loss on financing receivables is also based on the assessment of collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of the credit allowances determined either on an individual or a collective basis. When evaluating the financing receivables on an individual basis, we consider historical experience, credit quality and age of receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer’s ability to pay. When evaluating financing receivables on a collective basis, we use expected default frequency rates published by a major third-party credit-rating agency as well as our own historical loss rate in the event of default, while also systematically giving effect to economic conditions, concentration of risk and correlation. Determining expected default frequency rates and loss factors associated with internal credit risk ratings, as well as assessing factors such as economic conditions, concentration of risk, and correlation, are complex and subjective. Our ongoing consideration of all these factors could result in an increase in our allowance for credit loss in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. Both accounts receivable and financing receivables are charged off at the point when they are considered uncollectible.
A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017 was $121 million and $122 million, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable and revenue. If the actual future returns were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been established, our revenue could be adversely affected. 
Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories, determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.
We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of January 27, 2018, the liability for these purchase commitments was $159 million, compared with $162 million as of July 29, 2017, and was included in other current liabilities.
In fiscal 2014, we recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $655 million resulting from failures related to products containing memory components manufactured by a single supplier between 2005 and 2010. We perform regular assessments of the sufficiency of this liability and reduced the amount by $74 million and $164 million in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively based on updated analyses. During the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we further reduced the liability by $141 million to reflect lower than expected defects, actual usage history, and estimated lower future remediation costs as more of the impacted products age and near the end of the support period covered by the remediation program. In addition, during the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we recorded a $125 million charge to product cost of sales related to the expected remediation costs for anticipated failures in future periods of a widely-used component sourced from a third party which is included in several of our products. The liabilities related to the supplier component remediation matters as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017 were $120 million and $174 million, respectively. 
Estimating these liabilities is complex and subjective, and if we experience changes in a number of underlying assumptions and estimates such as a change in claims compared with our expectations, or if the cost of servicing these claims is different than expected, our estimated liabilities for these matters may be impacted.
The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information, and could be adjusted based on market indices or other information that management deems material to its estimate of fair value. The assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative reliability of the inputs we use to value our investment portfolio, and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices for similar or identical assets, we do not believe that the nature of estimates and assumptions affected by levels of subjectivity and judgment was material to the valuation of the investment portfolio as of January 27, 2018. Level 3 assets do not represent a significant portion of our total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold.
If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described in the prior sentence, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit loss, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings, and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information, including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral.
For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.
We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of January 27, 2018, our investments in privately held companies were $982 million, compared with $983 million as of July 29, 2017, and were included in other assets. We monitor these investments for events or circumstances indicative of potential impairment, and we make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. 
Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date, which in most cases results in measuring goodwill as an excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including contingent consideration. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. The assessment of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the new accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets.
The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017 was $30.4 billion and $29.8 billion, respectively. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill in each of the first six months of fiscal 2018 and 2017. 
The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as acquired technology under development, is determined at acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate. We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets.
We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our purchased intangible assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. 
There were no impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets for the first six months of fiscal 2018, and there were $42 million of such impairment charges for the first six months of fiscal 2017. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. 
The Tax Act, enacted on December 22, 2017, lowers the U.S. federal corporation income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, while also imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. During the three months ended January 27, 2018, the Company recorded a provisional tax expense of $11.1 billion related to the Tax Act, comprised of $9.0 billion of U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax and $0.9 billion of DTA re-measurement. 
Total revenue was flat. Product revenue was flat while service revenue increased by 2%. Our total revenue grew in the Americas segment and declined in the EMEA and APJC segments. Product revenue for the emerging countries of BRICM, in the aggregate, was flat, as revenue increases in Brazil, Russia and China were offset by decreases in the other two BRICM countries.
Product revenue in the Americas segment increased by 6%, led by solid growth in the service provider and public sector markets and, to a lesser extent, growth in the commercial market. These increases were partially offset by a product revenue decline in the enterprise market. The product revenue increase in the public sector market was due primarily to higher sales to the U.S. federal government. From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 5% in the United States, 19% in Canada and 11% in Brazil, partially offset by a decrease of 4% in Mexico.
The increase in product revenue in the Americas segment was led by solid growth in the commercial market and, to a lesser extent, growth in the public sector and service provider markets. These increases were partially offset by a product revenue decline in the enterprise market. The product revenue growth in the public sector market was due primarily to higher sales to the U.S. federal government. From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 1% in the United States, 20% in Brazil and 8% in Canada, partially offset by a decrease of 16% in Mexico. 
Product revenue in the EMEA segment decreased by 1%, led by a decline in the service provider market and, to a lesser extent, a decline in the enterprise market, partially offset by product revenue growth in the public sector and commercial markets. Product revenue from emerging countries within EMEA increased by 7% while product revenue for the remainder of the EMEA segment decreased by 3%.
The decrease in product revenue in the EMEA segment of 3% was driven by a decline in the service provider market and, to a lesser extent, a decline in the enterprise market. We experienced product revenue growth in the public sector and commercial markets in this segment. Product revenue from emerging countries within EMEA increased by 1% while product revenue for the remainder of the EMEA segment decreased by 4%.
Product revenue in the APJC segment decreased by 4%. The product revenue decrease was led by a decline in the service provider market, partially offset by solid growth in the commercial and enterprise markets. Product revenue in the public sector market was flat. From a country perspective, product revenue decreased by 21% in Japan and 11% in India, while product revenue increased by 8% in China.
The decrease in product revenue in the APJC segment of 3% was led by decline in the service provider market, partially offset by product revenue growth in the commercial, enterprise and public sector markets. From a country perspective, product revenue decreased by 15% in Japan and 5% in India, while product revenue increased by 3% in China.
The Infrastructure Platforms product category represents our core networking offerings related to switching, routing, wireless, and the data center. The Infrastructure Platforms product category increased by 2%, or $149 million, and we saw broad strength across the portfolio. Within switching, we had strong growth in our data center switching and we saw solid momentum with our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series. Our revenue from data center also had strong growth driven by higher sales of server products and our hyperconverged data center offering, HyperFlex. We experienced solid revenue growth from wireless products driven by our Wave 2 offerings as well as Meraki. We had a modest decrease in sales of routing products driven by continued weakness in the service provider market. 
The Infrastructure Platforms product category decreased by 1%, or $154 million, with the vast majority of the decrease driven by lower revenue from routing products. The decrease in routing revenue was driven by weakness in the service provider market and a slowdown in enterprise routing sales. Our switching revenue decreased modestly but we saw solid momentum in campus switching with our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series. Within switching, we experienced an increase in sales of data center switches, driven by strength in our Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) portfolio. We experienced solid revenue growth from wireless products and our data center products driven by higher sales of server products and HyperFlex.
The Applications product category includes our collaboration offerings (unified communications, Cisco TelePresence and conferencing) as well as IoT and analytics software offerings from AppDynamics and Jasper. Revenue in our Applications product category increased by 6%, or $68 million, driven by increased revenue in Telepresence, Conferencing and analytics from our fiscal 2017 acquisition of AppDynamics partially offset by decreased revenue from unified communications endpoints. We continue to increase the amount of deferred revenue and the proportion of recurring revenue related to our Applications product category. 
Revenue in our Applications product category increased by 6%, or $135 million, with analytics from our fiscal 2017 acquisition of AppDynamics driving the majority of the increase and a modest revenue increase from collaboration offerings.
Revenue in our Security product category increased 6%, or $30 million, driven by higher sales of unified threat management and web security products. We continue to increase the amount of deferred revenue and the proportion of recurring revenue related to our Security product category.
Revenue in our Security product category increased 7%, or $75 million, driven by higher sales of unified threat management and web security products. 
The decrease in revenue from our Other Products category of 10%, or $29 million, was driven by a decrease in revenue from Service Provider Video software and solutions. 
The decrease in revenue from our Other Products category of 13%, or $86 million, was driven by a decrease in revenue from Service Provider Video software and solutions. 
Service revenue increased 3%. Technical support services revenue and advanced services revenue each increased by 3%. Technical support services revenue increased across all geographic segments. The increase in technical support services revenue was driven by an increase in software and solution support offerings. Advanced services revenue, which relates to professional services for specific customer network needs, had solid revenue growth in our EMEA and Americas segments and declined in our APJC segment.
Service revenue increased across all geographic segments. Technical support services revenue increased by 2% and advanced services increased by 3%. Technical support services revenue had solid growth in APJC and increased to a lesser extent in our Americas and EMEA segments. Advanced services revenue had strong growth in the EMEA segment and grew modestly in our APJC and Americas segments. 
 (1) Productivity includes overall manufacturing-related costs, such as component costs, warranty expense, provision for inventory, freight, logistics, shipment volume, and other items not categorized elsewhere.
Product gross margin increased by 0.4 percentage points driven by productivity improvements and a favorable mix impact partially offset by unfavorable impacts from product pricing. 
Product gross margin decreased by 1.5 percentage points due largely to unfavorable impacts from product pricing and a charge of $127 million to product cost of sales recorded in the first six months of fiscal 2018 related to legal and indemnification settlements, partially offset by productivity benefits and favorable product mix. 
Our service gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of contract initiations and renewals, our strategic investments in headcount, and the resources we deploy to support the overall service business. Another factor is the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical support services.
 (1) The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization and impairments of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, significant litigation settlements and other contingencies, charges related to asset impairments and restructurings, and certain other charges. We do not allocate these items to the gross margin for each segment because management does not include such information in measuring the performance of the operating segments. 
Sales and marketing expenses increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017, due to higher headcount-related expenses and higher share-based compensation expense, partially offset by lower contracted services and lower discretionary spending.
Sales and marketing expenses decreased in the first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared with the first six months of fiscal 2017, due to lower contracted services and lower discretionary spending, partially offset by higher headcount-related expenses and, to a lesser extent, higher share-based compensation expense.
The increase in share-based compensation expense in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2017, was due primarily to higher expense related to equity awards assumed with respect to our recent acquisitions and higher restructuring charges. 
Amortization of purchased intangible assets increased for the second quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017, due to amortization of purchased intangible assets from our recent acquisitions.
Amortization of purchased intangible assets increased slightly for the first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared with the first six months of fiscal 2017, due to amortization of purchased intangible assets from our recent acquisitions, partially offset by the impact of the impairment charges in the prior period.
We incurred restructuring and other charges of $98 million and $133 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively, and $250 million and $544 million for first six months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. These charges were related primarily to employee severance charges for employees impacted by the restructuring action announced in August 2016. In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we extended the restructuring action to include an additional $150 million of estimated additional pretax charges for employee severance and other one-time termination benefits. We have substantially completed the restructuring action and have incurred cumulative charges of $1.0 billion as of January 27, 2018. 
We expect to reinvest substantially all of the cost savings from the restructuring action in our key priority areas. As a result, the overall cost savings from the restructuring action are not expected to be material for future periods.
For the second quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017, operating income increased by 6% and as a percentage of revenue operating income increased by 0.9 percentage points. These increases resulted primarily from a revenue increase, a gross margin percentage increase and a decrease in restructuring and other charges related to the restructuring actions announced in August 2016.
For the first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared with the first six months of fiscal 2017, operating income increased by 1% and as a percentage of revenue operating income increased by 0.2 percentage points. These increases resulted primarily from a decrease in restructuring and other charges related to the restructuring actions announced in August 2016, partially offset by a gross margin percentage decrease driven by unfavorable impacts from pricing and the charge of $127 million for legal and indemnification settlements.
The change in total net gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments was primarily attributable to higher realized gains on publicly traded equity securities, partially offset by higher realized losses on fixed income securities as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities.
The change in net gains (losses) on investments in privately held companies was primarily due to lower impairment charges on investments in privately held companies partially offset by lower realized gains on investments in privately held companies.
The change in other gains (losses), net was primarily driven by net unfavorable foreign exchange impacts and, to a lesser extent, impacts from equity derivatives.
The change in total net gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments was primarily attributable to higher realized gains on publicly traded equity securities, partially offset by higher realized losses on fixed income securities as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities and $26 million of impairment charges on publicly traded equity securities. 
The change in net gains (losses) on investments in privately held companies was primarily due to lower impairment charges and higher realized gains on investments in privately held companies. 
The change in other gains (losses), net was primarily driven by net unfavorable foreign exchange impacts and to a lesser extent, impacts from equity derivatives.
The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 371.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with 20.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2017, a net 350.8 percentage point increase for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017. The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 203.1% for the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared with 21.1% for the first six months of fiscal 2017, a net 182.0 percentage point increase for the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared with the first six months of fiscal 2017. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the mandatory one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, foreign withholding tax, and DTA re-measurement during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, our capital allocation strategy including stock repurchase program and dividends, our contractual obligations, and certain other commitments and activities on our liquidity and capital resources.
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and our fixed income investment portfolio consisting primarily of high quality investment-grade securities. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and payment of dividends as discussed below. 
Free Cash Flow and Capital Allocation  As part of our capital allocation strategy, we intend to return a minimum of 50% of our free cash flow annually to our shareholders through cash dividends and repurchases of common stock.
We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors because of our intent to return a stated percentage of free cash flow to shareholders in the form of dividends and stock repurchases. We further regard free cash flow as a useful measure because it reflects cash that can be used to, among other things, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions, repurchase common stock, and pay dividends on our common stock, after deducting capital investments. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance and liquidity is that the free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. In addition, we have other required uses of cash, including repaying the principal of our outstanding indebtedness. Free cash flow is not a measure calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be regarded in isolation or as an alternative for net income provided by operating activities or any other measure calculated in accordance with such principles, and other companies may calculate free cash flow in a different manner than we do. 
On February 14, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.33 per common share to be paid on April 25, 2018 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 5, 2018. Any future dividends are subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. 
On February 14, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a $25 billion increase to the stock repurchase program. The remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program, including the additional authorization, is approximately $31 billion, with no termination date. We expect to utilize this remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases over the next 18 to 24 months. 
Our accounts receivable net, as of January 27, 2018 decreased by approximately 23%, as compared with the end of fiscal 2017, primarily due to product billings being more linear and the amount and timing of service billings in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.
Inventory as of January 27, 2018 increased by 17% from our inventory balance at the end of fiscal 2017. The increase in inventory was due to higher levels of manufactured finished goods in support of current order activity and an increase in raw materials due to securing memory supply which is currently constrained. 
Purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers increased by approximately 23% compared to the end of fiscal 2017. On a combined basis, inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers increased by 22% compared with the end of fiscal 2017. 
We record a liability, included in other current liabilities, for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. 
Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels.
Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. Interest is payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of January 27, 2018.
These credit agreements require that we comply with certain covenants, including that we maintain interest coverage ratios as defined in these agreements. As of January 27, 2018, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratios and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under these credit facilities. 
We lease office space in many U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased sites include sites in Belgium, Canada, China, Germany, India, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Poland and the United Kingdom. We also lease equipment and vehicles. The future minimum lease payments under all of our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of January 27, 2018 were $1.2 billion.
Insieme Networks, Inc. In fiscal 2012, we made an investment in Insieme, an early stage company focused on research and development in the data center market. This investment included $100 million of funding and a license to certain of our technology. During fiscal 2014, we acquired the remaining interests in Insieme, at which time the former noncontrolling interest holders became eligible to receive up to two milestone payments, which were determined using agreed-upon formulas based primarily on revenue for certain of Insieme’s products. The former noncontrolling interest holders earned the maximum amount related to these two milestone payments and were paid approximately $422 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017. During the first six months of fiscal 2017, we recorded compensation expense of $32 million related to these milestone payments. We do not expect a material amount of future compensation expense or further milestone payments related to this acquisition.
Other Funding Commitments We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $215 million as of January 27, 2018, compared with $216 million as of July 29, 2017.
We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies including venture funds and provide financing to certain customers. Certain of these investments are considered to be variable interest entities. We evaluate on an ongoing basis our investments in these privately held companies and customer financings, and we have determined that as of January 27, 2018 there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities.
We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. See the previous discussion of these financing guarantees under “Financing Receivables and Guarantees.”
We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available for sale investments. These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. The average daily balance of securities lending for the six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017 was $0.4 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively. We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against collateral losses. As of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017, we had no outstanding securities lending transactions. We believe these arrangements do not present a material risk or impact to our liquidity requirements. 
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On September 13, 2001, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program. On February 14, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a $25 billion increase to the stock repurchase program. The remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program, including the additional authorization, is approximately $31 billion, with no termination date.
For the majority of restricted stock units granted, the number of shares issued on the date the restricted stock units vest is net of shares withheld to meet applicable tax withholding requirements. Although these withheld shares are not issued or considered common stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program and therefore are not included in the preceding table, they are treated as common stock repurchases in our financial statements as they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued upon vesting (see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
