We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that have been powering the Internet since 1984.
Across networking, security, collaboration and the cloud, our evolving intent-based technologies are constantly learning and adapting to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we saw broad strength across the business and delivered strong revenue growth and solid margins.
We remain focused on accelerating innovation across our portfolio, and we believe that we have made continued progress on our strategic priorities.
Our product revenue reflected growth in Infrastructure Platforms, Applications and Security, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
We continue to operate in a challenging and highly competitive environment, which has negatively impacted routing products within our Infrastructure Platforms product category.
While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $115 million, EMEA revenue increased by $282 million, and revenue in our APJC segment increased by $126 million.
These increases reflect broad strength across several countries within these segments.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced solid product revenue growth in the commercial market and to a lesser extent in the enterprise and public sector markets.
Product revenue in the service provider market continued to decline with ongoing uncertainty in that area.
From a product category perspective, the product revenue increase of 5% was driven by a 2% product revenue increase in Infrastructure Platforms and solid product revenue growth in Applications and Security, which grew by 19% and 11%, respectively.
We saw broad strength across the portfolio with the exception of routing related to the weakness in the service provider market.
Total revenue increased 2%, with product revenue increasing 1% and service revenue increasing 2%.
Total gross margin decreased by 1.0 percentage points due to unfavorable impacts from pricing and a $127 million legal and indemnification settlement charge, partially offset by productivity benefits and favorable product mix.
We had a net loss of $3.7 billion and a net loss per share of $0.76, primarily due to the $11.1 billion provisional tax expense related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), comprised of $8.9 billion of U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax, and $1.0 billion of net deferred tax assets re-measurement.
As our customers add billions of new connections to their enterprises, we believe the network is becoming more critical than ever.
We believe that our customers are looking for intelligent networks that provide meaningful business value through automation, security, and analytics.
Our vision is to deliver a highly secure, intelligent, platform for digital businesses.
Our strategic priorities include accelerating our pace of innovation, increasing the value of the network, and delivering technology the way our customers want to consume it.
For additional discussion of our strategy and priorities, see Item 1. Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 29, 2017.
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 29, 2017, as updated as applicable in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements herein, describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates.
Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement.
For software, delivery is considered to have occurred upon unrestricted license access and license term commencement, when applicable.
We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment.
We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customer’s payment history.
In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met.
Revenue is recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for each unit of accounting are met.
For hosting arrangements, we recognize revenue ratably over the hosting period, while usage revenue is recognized based on utilization.
The amount of revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our valuation of the units of accounting.
Our multiple element arrangements may contain only deliverables within the scope of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition, deliverables within the scope of ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition, or a combination of both.
According to the accounting guidance prescribed in ASC 605, we use vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) for each of those units, when available.
We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately.
In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the historical standalone transactions have the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median rates.
When VSOE does not exist, we apply the selling price hierarchy to applicable multiple-deliverable arrangements.
Under the selling price hierarchy, third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) will be considered if VSOE does not exist, and estimated selling price (ESP) will be used if neither VSOE nor TPE is available.
In determining ESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the characteristics of the deliverable.
We typically arrive at an ESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company-specific factors such as geographies, competitive landscape, internal costs, profitability objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting.
Revenue from two-tier distributors is recognized based on a sell-through method using point-of-sale information provided by these distributors.
Distributors participate in various cooperative marketing and other incentive programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs.
The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts.
We also consider the concentration of receivables outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances for doubtful accounts.
We regularly review the adequacy of the credit allowances determined either on an individual or a collective basis.
When evaluating the financing receivables on an individual basis, we consider historical experience, credit quality and age of receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer’s ability to pay.
Determining expected default frequency rates and loss factors associated with internal credit risk ratings, as well as assessing factors such as economic conditions, concentration of risk, and correlation, are complex and subjective.
Both accounts receivable and financing receivables are charged off at the point when they are considered uncollectible.
A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates.
The reserve for future sales returns was $122 million as of each of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable and revenue.
Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories, determined primarily by future demand forecasts.
Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales.
At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.
Our provision for inventory was $42 million and $52 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $77 million and $111 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We regularly evaluate our exposure for inventory write-downs and the adequacy of our liability for purchase commitments.
These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States.
In fiscal 2014, we recorded a charge to product cost of sales of $655 million resulting from failures related to products containing memory components manufactured by a single supplier between 2005 and 2010.
We perform regular assessments of the sufficiency of this liability and reduced the amount by $74 million and $164 million in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively based on updated analyses.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we further reduced the liability by $141 million to reflect lower than expected defects, actual usage history, and estimated lower future remediation costs as more of the impacted products age and near the end of the support period covered by the remediation program.
In addition, during the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we recorded a $125 million charge to product cost of sales related to the expected remediation costs for anticipated failures in future periods of a widely-used component sourced from a third party which is included in several of our products.
The liabilities related to the supplier component remediation matters as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017 were $98 million and $174 million, respectively.
Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty.
Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment.
Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities.
Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of $47.7 billion as of April 28, 2018, compared with $58.8 billion as of July 29, 2017.
Our fixed income investment portfolio as of April 28, 2018 consisted primarily of high quality investment-grade securities.
See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information, and could be adjusted based on market indices or other information that management deems material to its estimate of fair value.
Level 3 assets do not represent a significant portion of our total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary.
The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold.
If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary.
An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security.
If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described in the prior sentence, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings.
If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit loss, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings, and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI).
In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information, including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral.
For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.
We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages.
As of April 28, 2018, our investments in privately held companies were $969 million, compared with $983 million as of July 29, 2017, and were included in other assets.
Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques.
Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date, which in most cases results in measuring goodwill as an excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including contingent consideration.
We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit.
The assessment of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the new accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets.
The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as acquired technology under development, is determined at acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value.
The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate.
We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets.
We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist.
We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.
If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset.
Our impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets were $1 million and $42 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.
During the nine months ended April 28, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax expense of $11.1 billion related to the Tax Act, comprised of $8.9 billion of U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax and $1.0 billion of DTA re-measurement.
We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate.
The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties.
Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets.
Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an international association comprised of 35 countries, including the United States, has made changes to numerous long-standing tax principles.
Product revenue increased by 5% and service revenue increased by 3%.
The increase in total revenue reflected growth across each of our geographic segments.
The emerging countries of BRICM, in the aggregate, experienced 5% product revenue growth, with increases in Russia, Brazil, China and India partially offset by a decrease in Mexico.
In addition to the impact of macroeconomic factors, including a reduced IT spending environment and reductions in spending by government entities, revenue by segment in a particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including the complexity of transactions such as multiple-element arrangements; the mix of financing arrangements provided to channel partners and customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors.
In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the revenue related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition, which in turn would impact the revenue of the relevant segment.
As has been the case in certain emerging countries from time to time, customers require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, and these activities may occur in future periods, which may also impact the timing of the recognition of revenue.
Product revenue increased by 1% and service revenue increased by 2%.
Our total revenue reflected growth across each of our geographic segments.
Product revenue for the emerging countries of BRICM, in the aggregate, experienced 2% product revenue growth, with increases in Brazil, Russia and China partially offset by decreases in the other two BRICM countries.
Product revenue in the Americas segment increased by 1%, led by solid growth in the commercial market, partially offset by product revenue declines in the service provider and enterprise markets.
From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 16% in Canada and 22% in Brazil, partially offset by a decrease of 16% in Mexico.
The increase in product revenue in the Americas segment was led by solid growth in the commercial market and, to a lesser extent, growth in the public sector market.
These increases were partially offset by a product revenue decline in the enterprise market.
From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 1% in the United States, 11% in Canada and 21% in Brazil, partially offset by a decrease of 16% in Mexico.
Product revenue in the EMEA segment increased by 11%, with solid growth across each of our customer markets.
Product revenue from emerging countries within EMEA increased by 5% and product revenue for the remainder of the EMEA segment increased by 12%.
The increase in product revenue in the EMEA segment of 2% was driven by solid growth in the commercial and public sector markets.
These increases were partially offset by a product revenue decline in the service provider market.
Product revenue in the enterprise market was flat.
Product revenue from emerging countries within EMEA increased by 2% and product revenue for the remainder of the EMEA segment increased by 1%.
Product revenue in the APJC segment increased by 7%.
The product revenue increase was led by solid growth in the commercial and enterprise markets.
These increases were partially offset by product revenue declines in the service provider and public sector markets.
From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 12% in Australia, 4% in China, 4% in Japan and 5% in India.
Product revenue in the APJC segment was flat as product revenue growth in the commercial and enterprise markets was offset by product revenue declines in the service provider and public sector markets.
From a country perspective, product revenue increased 3% in China while product revenue decreased by 9% in Japan and 2% in India.
The Infrastructure Platforms product category represents our core networking offerings related to switching, routing, wireless, and the data center.
Infrastructure Platforms revenue increased by 2%, or $171 million, with strength across the portfolio with the exception of routing.
Switching returned to growth with revenue growth in our data center and campus switching.
Revenue growth from our campus switching was driven by our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series.
We also experienced solid revenue growth from wireless products driven by Meraki as well as our Wave 2 offerings.
Our revenue from data center had strong double digit growth driven by higher sales of server products and our hyperconverged data center offering, HyperFlex.
We had a decrease in sales of routing products driven by continued weakness in the service provider market.
Revenue from the Infrastructure Platforms product category was flat as the increases in sales of switching, data center and wireless products were offset by the decreased revenue in routing.
Within switching, we experienced an increase in sales of data center switches, driven by strength in our Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) portfolio.
Revenue from campus switching decreased modestly but we saw solid momentum with our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series.
We experienced strong revenue growth in our data center products driven by higher sales of server products and HyperFlex and solid revenue growth from wireless products.
The decrease in routing revenue was driven by continued weakness in the service provider market and a slowdown in enterprise routing sales.
The Applications product category includes our collaboration offerings (unified communications, Cisco TelePresence and conferencing) as well as the Internet of Things (IoT) and analytics software offerings from AppDynamics and Jasper.
Revenue in our Applications product category increased by 19%, or $209 million, driven by increased revenue in Telepresence endpoints, unified communications infrastructure and analytics from our fiscal 2017 acquisition of AppDynamics.
Revenue in our Applications product category increased by 10%, or $344 million, with analytics from our fiscal 2017 acquisition of AppDynamics driving the majority of the increase along with revenue increases across our collaboration offerings.
Revenue in our Security product category increased 11%, or $56 million, driven by higher sales of unified threat management, advanced threat and web security products.
We continue to increase the amount of deferred revenue and the proportion of recurring revenue related to our Security product category.
Revenue in our Security product category increased 8%, or $131 million, driven by higher sales of unified threat management, web security and advanced threat security products.
The decrease in revenue from our Other Products category for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2017 was primarily driven by a decrease in revenue from Service Provider Video Software and Solutions (“SPVSS”).
On May 1, 2018, we announced a definitive agreement to sell the SPVSS business.
We expect this transaction to close in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions.
Technical support services revenue had solid growth in the APJC and EMEA segments and increased modestly in our Americas segment.
The increase in technical support services revenue was driven by an increase in software and solution support offerings.
Advanced services revenue, which relates to professional services for specific customer network needs, had solid revenue growth in the EMEA and Americas segments and increased to a lesser extent in our APJC segment.
Technical support services revenue increased by 2% and advanced services increased by 4%.
Technical support services revenue had solid growth in APJC and increased to a lesser extent in our Americas and EMEA segments.
Advanced services revenue had solid growth in the EMEA segment and increased to a lesser extent in our Americas and APJC segments.
 (1) Productivity includes overall manufacturing-related costs, such as component costs, warranty expense, provision for inventory, freight, logistics, shipment volume, and other items not categorized elsewhere.
Productivity improvements were driven by value engineering efforts (e.g.
component redesign, board configuration, test processes, and transformation processes), lower warranty expenses and continued operational efficiency in manufacturing operations.
Our productivity continued to be negatively impacted by an increase in the cost of certain memory components which are currently constrained.
We expect the higher costs on these memory components to continue to impact productivity in the near term.
Product gross margin decreased by 1.2 percentage points due largely to unfavorable impacts from product pricing and a charge of $127 million to product cost of sales recorded in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 related to legal and indemnification settlements, partially offset by productivity benefits and a favorable product mix.
Productivity improvements were driven by value engineering efforts, lower warranty expenses and continued operational efficiency in manufacturing operations.
Another factor is the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical support services.
 (1) The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization and impairments of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, significant litigation settlements and other contingencies, charges related to asset impairments and restructurings, and certain other charges.
We do not allocate these items to the gross margin for each segment because management does not include such information in measuring the performance of the operating segments.
The unfavorable mix impact was driven by our products within the Infrastructure Platforms product category.
Sales and marketing expenses increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017, due to increases in headcount-related expenses, discretionary spending and contracted services and, to a lesser extent, higher share-based compensation expense and higher acquisition-related costs.
The increase in share-based compensation expense in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2017, was due primarily to higher restructuring charges and higher expense related to equity awards assumed with respect to our recent acquisitions.
Amortization of purchased intangible assets increased for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017, due to amortization of purchased intangible assets from our recent acquisitions.
Amortization of purchased intangible assets increased for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2017, due to amortization of purchased intangible assets from our recent acquisitions, partially offset by the impact of the impairment charges in the prior period.
Fiscal 2018 Plan.
We initiated a restructuring plan in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 in order to realign our organization and enable further investment in key priority areas, with estimated pretax charges of approximately $300 million.
In connection with this restructuring plan, we incurred charges of $82 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018.
These aggregate pretax charges are primarily cash based and consist of employee severance and other one-time termination benefits, and other associated costs.
We expect this restructuring plan to be substantially completed in fiscal 2019.
Fiscal 2017 Plan.
In the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, we incurred restructuring and other charges of $70 million and $614 million, respectively, which were related primarily to employee severance charges for employees impacted by the restructuring action announced in August 2016.
We extended this restructuring action to include an additional $150 million of estimated additional pretax charges for employee severance and other one-time termination benefits.
We have completed this restructuring action and have incurred cumulative charges of $1.0 billion as of April 28, 2018.
We expect to reinvest substantially all of the cost savings from these restructuring actions in our key priority areas.
As a result, the overall cost savings from these restructuring actions are not expected to be material for future periods.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017, operating income decreased by 1% and as a percentage of revenue operating income decreased by 1.4 percentage points.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2017, operating income was flat and as a percentage of revenue operating income decreased by 0.3 percentage points.
These changes resulted primarily from a gross margin percentage decrease (driven primarily by unfavorable impacts from pricing and a charge of $127 million for legal and indemnification settlements partially offset by productivity benefits) and a decrease in restructuring and other charges.
Interest income increased driven by higher yields on our portfolio.
The increase in interest expense was driven by the impact of higher effective interest rates.
The change in total net gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments was primarily attributable to higher realized gains on publicly traded equity securities and lower impairment charges on publicly traded equity securities, partially offset by higher realized losses on fixed income securities as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities.
The change in net gains (losses) on investments in privately held companies was primarily due to lower realized gains on investments in privately held companies partially offset by lower impairment charges on investments in privately held companies.
The change in other gains (losses), net was primarily driven by net favorable foreign exchange impacts partially offset by higher donations.
The change in total net gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments was primarily attributable to higher realized gains on publicly traded equity securities and lower impairment charges on publicly traded equity securities, partially offset by higher realized losses on fixed income securities as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities.
The change in net gains (losses) on investments in privately held companies was primarily due to lower impairment charges partially offset by lower realized gains on investments in privately held companies.
The change in other gains (losses), net was primarily driven by higher donations, impacts from equity derivatives and net unfavorable foreign exchange impacts.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted.
The 21% federal tax rate will apply to our fiscal year ending July 27, 2019 and each year thereafter.
During the nine months ended April 28, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax expense of $11.1 billion related to the Tax Act, comprised of $8.9 billion of U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax (discussed above), and $1.0 billion re-measurement of net DTA.
The $1.2 billion foreign withholding tax was paid in February 2018.
The Tax Act is discussed more fully in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 17.3% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with 21.2% for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, a net 3.9 percentage point decrease for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a decrease in the provisional one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and a provision to tax return true-up tax benefit related to the U.S. federal research tax credit in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the mandatory one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, foreign withholding tax, and DTA re-measurement during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, our capital allocation strategy including stock repurchase program and dividends, our contractual obligations, and certain other commitments and activities on our liquidity and capital resources.
These uses of cash were partially offset by cash provided by operating activities of $9.6 billion.
Our total in cash and cash equivalents and investments held by various foreign subsidiaries was $6.9 billion and $67.5 billion as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, respectively.
The balance of cash and cash equivalents and investments available in the United States as of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017 was $47.5 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively.
During the nine months ended April 28, 2018, as a result of the Tax Act, all historical undistributed foreign subsidiary earnings through December 31, 2017 were subject to a mandatory one-time transition tax, which resulted in a provisional tax expense of $8.9 billion.
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations.
We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and our fixed income investment portfolio consisting primarily of high quality investment-grade securities.
We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and payment of dividends as discussed below.
Free Cash Flow and Capital Allocation  As part of our capital allocation strategy, we intend to return a minimum of 50% of our free cash flow annually to our shareholders through cash dividends and repurchases of common stock.
Risk Factors” in this report.
We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors because of our intent to return a stated percentage of free cash flow to shareholders in the form of dividends and stock repurchases.
We further regard free cash flow as a useful measure because it reflects cash that can be used to, among other things, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions, repurchase common stock, and pay dividends on our common stock, after deducting capital investments.
A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance and liquidity is that the free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period.
In addition, we have other required uses of cash, including repaying the principal of our outstanding indebtedness.
Free cash flow is not a measure calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be regarded in isolation or as an alternative for net income provided by operating activities or any other measure calculated in accordance with such principles, and other companies may calculate free cash flow in a different manner than we do.
Any future dividends are subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
On February 14, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a $25 billion increase to the stock repurchase program.
We expect to utilize this remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases over the next 15 to 21 months.
Our accounts receivable net, as of April 28, 2018 decreased by approximately 17%, as compared with the end of fiscal 2017, primarily due to product billings being more linear and the amount and timing of service billings in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.
Inventory as of April 28, 2018 increased by 18% from our inventory balance at the end of fiscal 2017.
The increase in inventory was due to higher levels of manufactured finished goods in support of current order activity and an increase in raw materials due to securing memory supply which is currently constrained.
Our finished goods consist of distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales and manufactured finished goods.
Distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales are related to unrecognized revenue on shipments to distributors and retail partners as well as shipments to customers.
Manufactured finished goods consist primarily of build-to-order and build-to-stock products.
Purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers increased by approximately 34% compared to the end of fiscal 2017.
On a combined basis, inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers increased by 30% compared with the end of fiscal 2017.
As of April 28, 2018, the liability for these purchase commitments was $163 million, compared with $162 million as of July 29, 2017, and was included in other current liabilities.
Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements.
We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels.
Our loan receivables include customers financing purchases of our hardware, software and services and also may include additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.
We also provide financing to certain qualified customers for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services.
The majority of the revenue from these financed service contracts is deferred and is recognized ratably over the period during which the services are performed.
Financing receivables increased by 2%.
We expect to continue to expand the use of our financing programs in the near term.
Financing Guarantees In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs.
The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years.
In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements.
In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party.
The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms.
We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers.
Historically, our payments under these arrangements have been immaterial.
Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees.
In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed.
As of April 28, 2018, the total maximum potential future payments related to these guarantees was approximately $303 million, of which approximately $122 million was recorded as deferred revenue.
Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium.
Interest is payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes.
We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of April 28, 2018.
Commercial Paper We have a short-term debt financing program in which up to $10.0 billion is available through the issuance of commercial paper notes.
We use the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes.
Deferred product revenue increased 11% primarily due to increased deferrals related to recurring software and subscription offers.
Security and Applications continued to experience strong product deferred revenue growth during the period.
The 3% decrease in deferred service revenue was driven by the impact of ongoing amortization of deferred service revenue.
We lease office space in many U.S. locations.
Outside the United States, larger leased sites include sites in Belgium, Canada, China, Germany, India, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Poland and the United Kingdom.
We also lease equipment and vehicles.
The future minimum lease payments under all of our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of April 28, 2018 were $1.2 billion.
See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other Funding Commitments We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand.
We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements.
In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies including venture funds and provide financing to certain customers.
Certain of these investments are considered to be variable interest entities.
We evaluate on an ongoing basis our investments in these privately held companies and customer financings, and we have determined that as of April 28, 2018 there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities.
On an ongoing basis, we reassess our investments in privately held companies and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance.
As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities.
Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events.
We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers.
We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers.
See the previous discussion of these financing guarantees under “Financing Receivables and Guarantees.”
We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available for sale investments.
These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis.
We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets.
We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against collateral losses.
As of April 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017, we had no outstanding securities lending transactions.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On September 13, 2001, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program.
Although these withheld shares are not issued or considered common stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program and therefore are not included in the preceding table, they are treated as common stock repurchases in our financial statements as they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued upon vesting (see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
