Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk 
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts. These forward contracts generally have a maturity of less than one year. The counterparties for our currency derivative contracts are large and reputable commercial or investment banks. 
The fair values of our foreign currency contracts are estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. 
At June 30, 2018, our Cash Flow Hedges have remaining maturities of 12 months or less. Additionally, less than $1 million of net realized but unrecognized losses are recorded within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” at June 30, 2018 for Cash Flow Hedges that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues. Such amounts will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. 
Table of Contents 
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, pre-tax net gains associated with these forward contracts were recorded in “General and administrative expenses” and were not material. 
Interest Rate Risk 
Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and variable rate debt pursuant to the credit agreement we entered into on October 11, 2013, as amended thereafter and from time to time. We do not currently use derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. As of both June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, a hypothetical interest rate change on our variable rate debt of one percent (100 basis points) would have changed interest expense on an annual basis by approximately $10 million. This estimate does not include a change in interest income from our investment portfolio that may result from such a hypothetical interest rate change, nor does it include the effects of other actions that we may take in the future to mitigate this risk, or any changes in our financial structure. Refer to Note 10 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for disclosures regarding interest rates associated with our debt obligations. 
Our investment portfolio consists primarily of money market funds and government securities with high credit quality and short average maturities. Because short-term securities mature relatively quickly and must be reinvested at the then-current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of cash, cash equivalents, or short-term securities is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities. Conversely, the fair value of such a portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities. At June 30, 2018, our $4.86 billion of cash and cash equivalents was comprised primarily of money market funds. 
Table of Contents 
