Item 1. Financial Statements
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Description of Business and Basis of Consolidation and Presentation
Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices. We also operate esports leagues and events and create film and television content based on our intellectual property. The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A., and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
Our Segments
Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform. Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets, and sells products primarily based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. Activision’s key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms.
Other
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Basis of Consolidation and Presentation
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we identified an error principally related to the initial recognition of global intangible low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries income taxes which should have been recorded in the three months and year ended December 31, 2018. Income tax expense for the three months and year ended December 31, 2018 should have been reduced by $35 million. This amount is not material to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018, and we will revise our 2018 consolidated financial statements to correct this matter in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2019. Our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018, as presented in this Form 10-Q, has been revised to reflect the correction of this error.
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease, and to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset for its leases. On January 1, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard. As a result, we have updated our significant accounting policy disclosure to include our accounting policy for leases under the new standard. Refer to Note 3 for information about the impact of adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at contract inception. In certain of our lease arrangements, primarily those related to our data center arrangements, judgment is required in determining if a contract contains a lease. For these arrangements, there is judgment in evaluating if the arrangement provides us with an asset that is physically distinct, or that represents substantially all of the capacity of the asset, and if we have the right to direct the use of the asset. Lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of future lease payments over the lease term at the commencement date. Included in the lease liability are future lease payments that are fixed, in-substance fixed, or payments based on an index or rate known at the commencement date of the lease. Variable lease payments are recognized as lease expenses as incurred, and generally relate to variable payments made based on the level of services provided by the landlords of our leases. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made prior to commencement, initial direct costs incurred, and lease incentives received. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we generally use our incremental borrowing rate in determining the present value of future payments. The incremental borrowing rate represents the rate required to borrow funds over a similar term to purchase the leased asset, and is based on the information available at the commencement date of the lease. For leased assets with similar lease terms and asset type we applied a portfolio approach in determining a single incremental borrowing rate to apply to the leased assets. 
In determining our lease liability, the lease term includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such option. For operating leases, the lease expense for minimum lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Finance lease assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset, not to exceed the length of the lease, with interest expense associated with finance lease liabilities recorded using the effective interest method. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet, and we recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
3. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
As noted in Note 2 above, we adopted the new lease accounting standard effective January 1, 2019. We elected to apply an optional adoption method, which uses the effective date as the initial date of application on transition with no retrospective adjustments to prior periods. Additionally, we elected to apply the package of transition practical expedients which permitted us to, among other things, (1) not reassess if existing contracts contained leases under the new lease accounting standard and (2) carry forward our historical lease classifications.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
In January 2017, the FASB issued new guidance that eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Instead, if an entity forgoes a Step 0 test, an entity will be required to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit, as determined in Step 1 from the goodwill impairment test, with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge, if any, for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. The effect of adoption should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our consolidated financial statements.
Cloud Computing Arrangements 
In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance related to a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement (i.e. hosting arrangement) that is a service contract. The new guidance requires customers to capitalize implementation costs for these arrangements by applying the same criteria that are utilized for existing internal-use software guidance. The capitalized costs are required to be amortized over the associated term of the arrangement, generally on a straight-line basis, with amortization of these costs presented in the same financial statement line item as other costs associated with the arrangement. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and can be applied retrospectively or prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, inventory reserves were $20 million and $22 million, respectively.
6. Intangible Assets, Net
Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $55 million and $119 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
•Level 1—Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
•Level 2—Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data; and
•Level 3—Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges (“Cash Flow Hedges”)
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, pre-tax net gains (losses) associated with these forward contracts were recorded in “General and administrative expenses” and were not material.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no impairment charges related to assets that are measured on a non-recurring basis.
Credit Facilities
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $1.5 billion available under a revolving credit facility (the “Revolver”) pursuant to a credit agreement entered into on October 11, 2013 (as amended thereafter and from time to time, the “Credit Agreement”). To date, we have not drawn on the Revolver, and we were in compliance with the terms of the Credit Agreement as of March 31, 2019.
Refer to Note 13 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for further details regarding the Credit Agreement, its key terms, and previous amendments made to it.
The Notes are general senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in right of payment to all of the Company’s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the Revolver described above. The Notes are not secured and are effectively junior to any of the Company’s existing and future indebtedness that is secured to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness. We were in compliance with the terms of the Notes as of March 31, 2019.
Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year for the 2021 Notes and the 2026 Notes, and payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year for the 2022 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and the 2047 Notes. Accrued interest payable is recorded within “Accrued expenses and other liabilities” in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had accrued interest payable of $14 million and $15 million, respectively, related to the Notes.
Refer to Note 13 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for further details regarding key terms under our indentures that govern the Notes.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, interest expense was $21 million and $40 million, respectively, and amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $1 million and $2 million, respectively.
With the exception of the 2047 Notes, using Level 2 inputs (i.e., observable market prices in less-than-active markets) at March 31, 2019, the carrying values of the Notes approximated their fair values, as the interest rates were similar to the current rates at which we could borrow funds over the selected interest periods. At March 31, 2019, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair value of the 2047 Notes was $378 million.
Using Level 2 inputs at December 31, 2018, the carrying values of the 2021 Notes and the 2022 Notes approximated their fair values, as the interest rates were similar to the current rates at which we could borrow funds over the selected interest periods. At December 31, 2018, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2026 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and the 2047 Notes were $800 million, $376 million, and $360 million, respectively.
12. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
13. Operating Segments and Geographic Region
The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 49% and 47% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% and 11% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for either the three months ended March 31, 2019 or 2018.
•increasing our investment in development for our largest, internally-owned franchises—across upfront releases, in-game content, mobile, and geographic expansion;
•integrating our global and regional sales and “go-to-market,” partnerships, and sponsorships capabilities across the business, which we believe will enable us to provide better opportunities for talent, and greater expertise and scale on behalf of our business units.
The restructuring actions are in process and are largely expected to be completed by the end of 2019, although the timing of cash payments may continue into 2020.
We expect to incur aggregate pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $150 million in 2019 associated with the restructuring plan. These charges will primarily relate to severance (approximately 60% of the aggregate charge), including, in many cases, amounts above those that are legally required, facilities costs (approximately 15% of the aggregate charge), and asset write-downs and other costs (approximately 25% of the aggregate charge). A majority of the total pre-tax charge associated with the restructuring will be paid in cash using amounts on hand and the outlays are expected to be largely incurred throughout 2019.
15. Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net
Potential common shares are not included in the denominator of the diluted earnings per common share calculation when the inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive. Therefore, approximately 6 million and 2 million options to purchase shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.
On January 31, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of our common stock from February 14, 2019, until the earlier of February 13, 2021, and a determination by the Board of Directors to discontinue the repurchase program. As of March 31, 2019, we have not repurchased any shares under this program.
Dividends
On February 12, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.37 per common share. Such dividend is payable on May 9, 2019, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 28, 2019. We have recorded $283 million of dividends payable in “Accrued expenses and other liabilities” on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2019.
On February 8, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.34 per common share. On May 9, 2018, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $259 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 30, 2018.
19. Commitments and Contingencies
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Item 6. Exhibits
The exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index are hereby incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
†Confidential treatment requested as to portions of the exhibit. Confidential materials omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
