Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk 
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts. These forward contracts generally have a maturity of less than one year. The counterparties for our currency derivative contracts are large and reputable commercial or investment banks. 
Table of Contents 
The fair values of our foreign currency contracts are estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. 
At September 30, 2018, our Cash Flow Hedges have remaining maturities of 15 months or less. Additionally, $3 million of net realized but unrecognized gains are recorded within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” at September 30, 2018 for Cash Flow Hedges that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues. Such amounts will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. 
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, pre-tax net gains associated with these forward contracts were recorded in “General and administrative expenses” and were not material. 
Interest Rate Risk 
Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio, as our outstanding debt is all at fixed rates. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of money market funds and government securities with high credit quality and short average maturities. Because short-term securities mature relatively quickly and must be reinvested at the then-current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of cash, cash equivalents, or short-term securities is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities. Conversely, the fair value of such a portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities. At September 30, 2018, our $3.31 billion of cash and cash equivalents was comprised primarily of money market funds. 
Table of Contents 
