Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices. We also operate esports leagues and events and create film and television content based on our intellectual property. The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A, and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
Our Segments
Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”), is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform. Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets, and sells products primarily based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. Activision’s key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms.
Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (“Blizzard”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the PC platform. Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products. Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content. Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.
King Digital Entertainment (“King”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly on the mobile platform, including for Google Inc.’s (“Google”) Android and Apple Inc.’s (“Apple”) iOS. King also distributes its content and services on the PC platform, primarily via Facebook. King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.
Other
•the Activision Blizzard Studios (“Studios”) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our library of globally recognized intellectual properties, and which, in September 2018, released the third season of the animated TV series Skylanders™ Academy on Netflix; and
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Business Results and Highlights
Financial Results
Operating Metrics
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
Net Bookings
We monitor monthly active users (“MAUs”) as a key measure of the overall size of our user base. MAUs are the number of individuals who accessed a particular game in a given month. We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period. An individual who accesses two of our games would be counted as two users. In addition, due to technical limitations, for Activision and King, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users. For Blizzard, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user.
Average MAUs decreased by 11 million, or 3%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 primarily driven by a decrease in average MAUs for Activision. The decrease in Activision’s average MAUs is primarily due to (1) the Destiny franchise, as Destiny MAUs are no longer included in our average MAU metric since we sold our publishing rights in the Destiny franchise to Bungie in December 2018, and (2) decreases in the Call of Duty franchise. The decrease is partially offset by an increase in average MAUs for King, driven by the Candy Crush franchise.
•decreases across King’s various franchises, primarily from less engaged users leaving the network, partially offset by an increase in average MAUs for the Candy Crush franchise; 
•lower average MAUs for Activision, primarily due to lower average MAUs from the Call of Duty franchise and the absence of Destiny MAUs in our operating metric; and 
Management’s Overview of Business Trends
Interactive Entertainment and Mobile Gaming Growth
Our business participates in the global interactive entertainment industry. Games have become an increasingly popular form of entertainment, and we estimate the total industry has grown, on average, 18% annually from 2015 to 2018. The industry continues to benefit from additional players entering the market as interactive entertainment becomes more commonplace across age groups and as more developing regions gain access to this form of entertainment.
The wide adoption of smart phones globally and the free-to-play business model on those platforms has increased the total addressable audience for gaming significantly by introducing gaming to new age groups and new regions and allowing gaming to occur more widely outside the home. Mobile gaming is estimated to be larger than console and PC gaming, and continues to grow at a significant rate. King is a leading developer of mobile and free-to-play games and our other business units have mobile efforts underway that present the opportunity for us to expand the reach of, and drive additional player investment from, our franchises.
Opportunities to Expand Franchises Outside of Games
For example, as part of our efforts to take advantage of esports opportunities, during 2017, we completed the sale of 12 teams for the Overwatch League, which concluded its inaugural season in July 2018. During 2018, we also completed the sale of eight additional teams for the Overwatch League, which are competing in the league’s second season that began in February 2019. Additionally, as recently announced, we have sold the first five teams for our professional Call of Duty city-based league.
Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Franchises
The concentration of retail revenues among key titles has continued as a trend in the overall interactive entertainment industry. According to The NPD Group, the top 10 titles accounted for 38% of the retail sales in the U.S. interactive entertainment industry in 2018. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues historically has been derived from video games based on a few popular franchises, and these video games have been responsible for a disproportionately high percentage of our profits. For example, the Call of Duty, Candy Crush, and World of Warcraft franchises, collectively, accounted for 58% of our consolidated net revenues—and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income—for 2018.
Recurring Revenue Business Models
Increased consumer online connectivity has allowed us to offer players new investment opportunities and to shift our business further towards a more consistently recurring and year-round model. Offering downloadable content and microtransactions, in addition to full games, allows our players to access and invest in new content throughout the year. This incremental content not only provides additional high-margin revenues, it can also increase player engagement. Also, mobile games, and free-to-play games more broadly, are generally less seasonal than games developed primarily for the console or PC platforms.
Consolidated Statements of Operations Data
Consolidated Net Revenues
Consolidated Net Revenues
Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized
Foreign Exchange Impact
Segment Net Revenues
Activision
•lower revenues from Call of Duty franchise catalog titles.
•lower revenues from Overwatch, primarily driven by lower in-game purchases; and
•lower revenues from Hearthstone.
King’s net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019, were roughly equal to net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018. 
Segment Income from Operations
Activision
•an increase in bad debt provisions. 
•lower sales and marketing spend, primarily driven by the Overwatch League; and
The decrease in King’s operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to higher sales and marketing costs driven by the Candy Crush franchise.
Foreign Exchange Impact
Net Revenues by Distribution Channel
Digital Online Channel Net Revenues
•lower revenues recognized from Overwatch, primarily driven by lower in-game purchases. 
•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise; and
Net Revenues by Geographic Region
Americas
Net Revenues by Platform
•lower revenues recognized from Call of Duty franchise catalog titles. 
•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise; and 
•lower revenues recognized from Overwatch. 
Mobile and Ancillary
Net revenues from mobile and ancillary for the three months ended March 31, 2019, were roughly equal to net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Cost of Revenues
The decrease in product costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was in line with the decrease in product sales.
Product Development (amounts in millions) 
The decrease in product development costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily driven by lower product development costs from the Destiny franchise, the publishing rights to which we sold to Bungie in December 2018, as previously disclosed.
Sales and Marketing (amounts in millions)
•a decrease of $44 million in amortization of the customer base intangible asset acquired as part of our acquisition of King, as the asset was fully amortized during the first quarter of 2018; and
The decrease was partially offset by an increase in bad debt provisions.
General and Administrative (amounts in millions)
The decrease in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to a $15 million decrease in personnel costs.
Restructuring and related costs (amounts in millions)
Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net (amounts in millions)
The decrease in interest and other expense (income), net, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to an $18 million decrease in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs associated with our debt obligations due to our lower total debt outstanding as a result of our debt redemptions and repayment activities during 2018.
We believe our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities is one of our fundamental financial strengths. In the near term, we expect our business and financial condition to remain strong and to continue to generate significant operating cash flows, which, we believe, in combination with our existing balance of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $4.8 billion, our access to capital, and the availability of our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to finance our operational and financing requirements for the next 12 months. Our primary sources of liquidity, which are available to us to fund cash outflows such as our anticipated dividend payments, share repurchases, and scheduled debt maturities, include our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows provided by operating activities.
Sources of Liquidity (amounts in millions)
Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019, was $450 million, as compared to $529 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower net income and a decrease in non-cash adjustments to net income.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities 
The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with investing activities typically include capital expenditures, purchases and sales of investments, changes in restricted cash balances, and cash used for acquisitions.
Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019, was $5 million, as compared to $51 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to cash flow activities associated with available-for-sale investments, for which, in the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were $13 million of cash proceeds from the maturities of available-for-sale investments as compared to purchases of available-for-sale investments of $20 million in the prior-year period. Additionally, we had lower capital expenditures of $18 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $31 million in the prior-year period.
The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with financing activities typically include the proceeds from, and repayments of, our long-term debt and transactions involving our common stock, including the issuance of shares of common stock to employees upon the exercise of stock options, as well as the payment of dividends.
Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019, was $24 million, as compared to $8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was due to lower tax payments made for net share settlements on restricted stock units of $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $39 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, partially offset by lower proceeds from stock option exercises of $30 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $47 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Debt
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our total outstanding debt was $2.7 billion, bearing interest at a weighted average rate of 3.18%.
Dividends
On February 12, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.37 per common share. Such dividend is payable on May 9, 2019, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 28, 2019. We have recorded $283 million of dividends payable in “Accrued expenses and other liabilities” on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2019.
Capital Expenditures
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
•Revenue Recognition;
•Allowances for Returns and Price Protection;
•Fair Value Estimates (including Business Combinations and Assessment of Impairment of Assets); and
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
As noted in Note 2 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we adopted the new lease accounting standard effective January 1, 2019. We elected to apply an optional adoption method, which uses the effective date as the initial date of application on transition with no retrospective adjustments to prior periods. Additionally, we elected to apply the package of transition practical expedients which permitted us to, among other things, (1) not reassess if existing contracts contained leases under the new lease accounting standard and (2) carry forward our historical lease classifications.
For additional discussion regarding the impact of our adoption of the new lease accounting standard to our condensed consolidated balance sheet, see Note 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
