Item 1. Financial Statements 
1. Description of Business and Basis of Consolidation and Presentation 
Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”), and mobile devices. We also operate esports events and leagues and create film and television content based on our intellectual property. The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries. 
The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. 
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” 
Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform. Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets, and sells products based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny. 
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below. Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies. 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminates all industry-specific guidance, providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (collectively, the “new revenue accounting standard”). As a result, we have updated our significant accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition herein. Refer to Note 3 for the impact of adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
· subscriptions to players in our World of Warcraft franchise, which provide continual access to the game content. 
When control of the promised products and services is transferred to our customers, we recognize revenue in the amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for these products and services. 
· recognizing revenue when, or as, we satisfy performance obligations by transferring the promised goods or services. 
Certain products are sold to customers with a “street date” (which is the earliest date these products may be sold by retailers). For these products, we recognize revenues on the later of the street date and the date the product is sold to our customer. For digital full-game downloads sold to customers, we recognize revenue when it is available for download or is activated for gameplay. Revenues are recorded net of taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed at the time of the specific revenue-producing transaction between us and our customer, such as sales and value-added taxes. 
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment immediately upon purchase or within 30 to 90 days. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we do not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component when we expect, at contract inception, that the period between our transfer of a promised product or service to our customer and payment for that product or service will be one year or less. 
Product sales consist of sales of our games, including physical products and digital full-game downloads. We recognize revenues from the sale of our products after both (1) control of the products has been transferred to our customers and (2) underlying performance obligations have been satisfied. 
Revenues from product sales are recognized after deducting the estimated allowance for returns and price protection, which are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize. Returns and price protection are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available. 
For our software products that include both offline functionality (i.e., do not require an Internet connection to access) and significant online functionality, such as titles for the Call of Duty franchise, we evaluate whether the license of our intellectual property and the online functionality are distinct and separable. This evaluation is performed for each software product or product add-on, including downloadable content. If we determine that our software products contain a license of intellectual property separate from the online functionality, we consider market conditions and other observable inputs to estimate the transaction price for the license, since we do not generally sell the software license on a standalone basis. These products may be sold in a bundle with other products and services, which often results in the recognition of additional performance obligations. 
For our online hosted software arrangements, such as titles for the Destiny, Overwatch, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush franchises, substantially all gameplay and functionality are obtained through our continuous hosting of the game content for the player. Similar to our software products with online functionality, these arrangements may include other products and services, which often results in the recognition of additional performance obligations. Revenues related to online hosted software arrangements are generally recognized ratably over the estimated service period. 
Subscription revenue arrangements are mostly derived from World of Warcraft, which is playable through Blizzard’s servers and is generally sold on a subscription-only basis. For World of Warcraft, after the first month of free usage that is included with the initial purchase of World of Warcraft software, the World of Warcraft end user may enter into a subscription agreement for additional future access. Revenues associated with the sales of subscriptions via initial software purchases and standalone subscriptions sales are deferred until the subscription service is activated by the consumer and are then recognized ratably over the subscription period as the performance obligations are satisfied. 
Revenues attributable to the initial purchase of World of Warcraft software by our customers and related sales of expansion packs are classified as “Product sales,” whereas revenues attributable to subscriptions and other in-game revenues are classified as “Subscription, licensing, and other revenues.” 
Other revenues primarily include revenues from downloadable content (e.g., multi-player content packs), microtransactions, and licensing of intellectual property other than software to third-parties. 
Microtransaction revenues are derived from the sale of virtual currencies and goods to our players to enhance their gameplay experience. Proceeds from these sales of virtual currencies and goods are initially recorded in deferred revenue. Proceeds from the sales of virtual currencies are recognized as revenues when a player uses the virtual goods purchased with a virtual currency. Proceeds from the sales of virtual goods directly are similarly recognized as revenues when a player uses the virtual goods. We categorize our virtual goods as either “consumable” or “durable”. Consumable virtual goods represent goods that can be consumed by a specific player action; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of consumable virtual goods as the goods are consumed and our performance obligation is satisfied. Durable virtual goods represent goods that are accessible to the player over an extended period of time; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of durable virtual goods ratably over the period of time the goods are available to the player and our performance obligation is satisfied, which is generally the estimated service period. 
Significant judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation and to determine whether there is a discount that needs to be allocated based on the relative standalone selling price of the various products and services. To estimate the standalone selling price we consider market data, including our pricing strategies for the product being evaluated and other similar products we may offer, competitor pricing to the extent data is available, and costs to determine whether the estimated selling price yields an appropriate profit margin. 
We consider a variety of data points when determining the estimated service period for players of our games, including the weighted average number of days between players’ first and last days played online, the average total hours played, the average number of days in which player activity stabilizes, and the weighted-average number of days between players’ first purchase date and last date played online. We also consider known online trends, the service periods of our previously released games, and, to the extent publicly available, the service periods of our competitors’ games that are similar in nature to ours. We believe this provides a reasonable depiction of the transfer of services to our customers, as it is the best representation of the time period during which our customers play our games. Determining the estimated service period is subjective and requires management’s judgment. Future usage patterns may differ from historical usage patterns, and therefore the estimated service period may change in the future. The estimated service periods for players of our current games are generally less than 12 months. 
· which party has discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service. 
Based on our evaluation of the above indicators, we report revenues on a gross basis for sales arrangements via Apple App Store and Google Play Store, and we report revenues on a net basis (i.e., net of fees retained by the digital storefront) for sales arrangements via Microsoft’s Xbox Games Store and Sony’s PSN. 
Refer to Note 9 for further information, including changes in deferred revenue during the period. 
3. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
· The accounting for certain of our software licensing arrangements. While the impact of the new revenue accounting standard may differ on a contract-by-contract basis (as the actual revenue recognition treatment required under the standard will depend on contract-specific terms), the new revenue accounting standard generally results in earlier revenue recognition for these arrangements. 
Adoption of the new revenue accounting standard had no impact to net cash from or used in operating, investing, or financing activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows. 
In January 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. The new standard, among other things, generally requires companies to measure investments in other entities, except those accounted for under the equity method, at fair value and to recognize any changes in fair value in net income. The new standard also simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and the guidance should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The guidance related to equity investments without readily determinable fair values (including disclosure requirements) is applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption. We adopted the new standard during the first quarter of 2018 and it did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
In November 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the classification of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. The new standard requires that a statement of cash flows explain any change during the period in total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. Therefore, restricted cash will be included with “Cash and cash equivalents” when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and should be applied retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted. 
We adopted the new standard during the first quarter of 2018 and applied the standard retrospectively for all periods presented. The application of this new standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. 
In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2018, there will be a significant impact to the consolidated statements of cash flows for 2016, as this period includes, as an investing activity, the $3.6 billion movement in restricted cash resulting from the transfer of cash into escrow at December 31, 2015 to facilitate the acquisition of King, and the subsequent release of that cash in 2016 to complete the acquisition. Under this new standard, the restricted cash balance will be included in the beginning and ending total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash balances and, hence, will not be included as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows. 
In August 2017, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for derivatives and hedging. The new guidance expands and refines hedge accounting for both financial and non-financial risk components, aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of hedging instruments and hedged items in the financial statements, and includes certain targeted improvements to ease the application of current guidance related to the assessment of a hedge’s effectiveness. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. We adopted the standard during the first quarter of 2018. The adoption of the standard did not have a material impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease, and to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for its leases. Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting. The lease liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments. The asset will be based on the lease liability, subject to adjustment for initial direct costs, lease incentives received, and any prepaid lease payments. Operating leases will result in a straight-line expense pattern, while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented, with certain transition practical expedients available to provide relief in adopting the new standard. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements, but expect it to have a significant impact to our consolidated balance sheet as a result of establishing lease liabilities and right-of-use assets for our operating leases. We do not plan to early adopt this new standard but do expect to elect and apply the available transition practical expedients upon adoption. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued new guidance which eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Instead, if an entity forgoes a Step 0 test, an entity will be required to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit, as determined in Step 1 from the goodwill impairment test, with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge, if any, for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. The effect of adoption should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, inventory reserves were $32 million and $36 million, respectively. 
Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $77 million and $196 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $194 million and $385 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. 
· Level 3—Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs. 
At June 30, 2018, our Cash Flow Hedges have remaining maturities of 12 months or less. Additionally, less than $1 million of net realized but unrecognized losses are recorded within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” at June 30, 2018 for Cash Flow Hedges that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues. Such amounts will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. 
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, pre-tax net gains associated with these forward contracts were recorded in “General and administrative expenses” and were not material. 
We measure the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. 
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were no impairment charges related to assets that are measured on a non-recurring basis. 
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of the fulfillment of our associated performance obligations. The opening balance and ending balance of deferred revenues as of January 1, 2018 and June 30, 2018 were $1.8 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, including our current and non-current balances. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, the additions to our deferred revenues balance were primarily due to cash payments received or due in advance of satisfying our performance obligations, while the reductions to our deferred revenues balance were primarily due to the recognition of revenues upon fulfillment of our performance obligations, both of which were in the ordinary course of business. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, $1.5 billion of revenues were recognized that were included in the deferred revenues balance at the beginning of the period. 
At December 31, 2017, we had outstanding term loans “A” of approximately $990 million (the “2017 TLA”) and $250 million available under a revolving credit facility (the “Revolver”) pursuant to a credit agreement executed on October 11, 2013 (as amended thereafter and from time to time, the “Credit Agreement”). To date, we have not drawn on the Revolver and at June 30, 2018, the 2017 TLA bore interest at 3.22% and had an outstanding balance of $990 million. We were in compliance with the terms of the Credit Agreement as of June 30, 2018. 
Refer to Note 11 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for further details regarding the Credit Agreement, key terms, and amendments made to the Credit Agreement. 
· $750 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due September 2023 that we issued on September 19, 2013 (the “2023 Notes”), in a private offering made in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”); 
· $650 million of 2.3% unsecured senior notes due September 2021 (the “2021 Notes”) and $850 million of 3.4% unsecured senior notes due September 2026 (the “2026 Notes”) that we initially issued on September 19, 2016, in a private offering made in accordance with Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act, and subsequently exchanged for publicly registered notes in June 2017; and 
· $400 million of 2.6% unsecured senior notes due June 2022 (the “2022 Notes”), $400 million of 3.4% unsecured senior notes due June 2027 (the “2027 Notes”), and $400 million of 4.5% unsecured senior notes due June 2047 (the “2047 Notes”, and together with the 2021 Notes, the 2022 Notes, the 2023 Notes, the 2026 Notes, and the 2027 Notes, the “Notes”), that we issued on May 26, 2017, in a public underwritten offering. 
The Notes are general senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in right of payment to all of the Company’s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the 2017 TLA and Revolver described above. The Notes are not secured and are effectively subordinated to any of the Company’s existing and future indebtedness that is secured. We were in compliance with the terms of the Notes as of June 30, 2018. 
Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year for the 2021 Notes, the 2023 Notes, and 2026 Notes, and payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year for the 2022 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and 2047 Notes. Accrued interest payable is recorded within “Accrued expenses and other liabilities” in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of both June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we had accrued interest payable of $28 million related to the Notes. 
On July 17, 2018, we issued an irrevocable notice of redemption to the holders of all of our outstanding 2023 Notes. Accordingly, the 2023 Notes will be redeemed pursuant to their terms on August 16, 2018 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2023 Notes plus a “make-whole” premium calculated as set forth in the indenture governing the 2023 Notes. Redemption of the 2023 Notes will result in a loss on extinguishment of approximately $35 million, comprised of premium payments of approximately $27 million and a write-off of unamortized discount and financing costs of approximately $8 million. As the irrevocable notice of redemption was issued subsequent to June 30, 2018, we presented the outstanding principal balance of the 2023 Notes and its related unamortized discount and deferred financing costs as “Long-term debt, net” on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2018. 
Refer to Note 11 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for further details regarding our key terms under our indentures that govern the Notes. 
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, interest expense was $41 million and $80 million, respectively, and amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $2 million and $4 million, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, interest expense was $36 million and $71 million, respectively, and amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $2 million and $9 million, respectively. 
On February 1, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized repayment of up to $1.8 billion of the company’s outstanding debt during 2018. As discussed above, on July 17, 2018, we issued an irrevocable notice to the holders of our 2023 Notes that all of our outstanding 2023 Notes will be redeemed on August 16, 2018. The determination as to if and when we make any such remaining repayments will be dependent on market conditions and other factors. 
Using Level 2 inputs (i.e., observable market prices in less-than-active markets) at June 30, 2018, with the exception of the 2026 Notes and the 2027 Notes, the carrying values of our debt instruments approximated their fair values, as the interest rates were similar to current rates at which we could borrow funds over the selected interest periods. At June 30, 2018, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2026 Notes and the 2027 Notes were $810 million and $379 million, respectively. 
Using Level 2 inputs at December 31, 2017, with the exception of the 2023 Notes and the 2047 Notes, the carrying values of our debt instruments approximated their fair values. At December 31, 2017, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2023 Notes and the 2047 Notes were $795 million and $421 million, respectively. 
11. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organizational structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. We do not aggregate operating segments. 
The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 49% and 46% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% of consolidated net revenues for both the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for either the three months ended June 30, 2018 or 2017. 
The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 48% and 47% of consolidated net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% of consolidated net revenues for both the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for either the six months ended June 30, 2018 or 2017. 
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company obtained additional information, including adjustments related to the Closing Agreement, and the evaluation of the impact of changing our indefinite reinvestment assertion, which affected the provisional amount initially recorded for the U.S. Tax Reform Act in the fourth quarter of 2017. As a result, the Company recorded an additional tax expense of $34 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018 for the effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act. 
The vesting of certain of our employee-related restricted stock units and options is contingent upon the satisfaction of pre-defined performance measures. The shares underlying these equity awards are included in the weighted-average dilutive common shares only if the performance measures are met as of the end of the reporting period. Approximately 6 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, as their underlying performance measures had not yet been met. Approximately 9 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, as their underlying performance measures had not yet been met. 
Potential common shares are not included in the denominator of the diluted earnings per common share calculation when the inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive. Therefore, approximately 2 million options to purchase shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, and 1 million and 5 million options to purchase shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. 
On February 2, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock during the two-year period from February 13, 2017 through February 12, 2019. As of June 30, 2018, we have not repurchased any shares under this program. 
On February 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.34 per common share. On May 9, 2018, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $259 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 30, 2018. 
On February 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.30 per common share. On May 10, 2017, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $226 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 30, 2017. 
16. Commitments and Contingencies 
Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
Item 1A. Risk Factors 
The exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index are hereby incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
