fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company consolidates the financial results for MSA into its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 19, 2019.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-02 ("ASC 842"), which supersedes the current lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
The Company did not elect the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term for existing leases and in assessing the impairment for the ROU assets.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded $433 million and $486 million of ROU assets and lease liabilities, respectively, primarily due to its operating leases, to the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The Company also recorded a $48 million increase in retained earnings due to the cumulative effect of recognizing the gain, net of taxes, related to the sale of the San Diego properties (see "Note 10–Property, Plant and Equipment").
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, which applies a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
The Company has facilities and equipment lease arrangements.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset over the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement date based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
The Company's leases may also include variable lease payments such as an escalation clause based on consumer price index rates, maintenance costs and utilities.
Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in the determination of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities using the index or rate at the lease commencement date, whereas variable lease payments that do not depend on a index or rate are recorded as lease expense in the period incurred.
At March 29, 2019, the Company did not have any lease agreements with residual value guarantees.
The related lease payments on the Company’s short-term facilities and equipment leases are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
At March 29, 2019, and December 28, 2018, the Company included $66 million and $56 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%.


item2.txt
During the three months ended March 29, 2019, we generated approximately 87% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
In March 2019, the President submitted the GFY 2020 budget proposal to Congress.
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 8% of total revenues for the three months ended March 29, 2019.
The increase in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three months ended March 29, 2019, was 6.1%, as compared to an actual increase in revenues of 5.5%.
The foreign currency impact was mainly attributable to adverse exchange rate movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards and a net increase in program volumes, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts, the adverse impact of foreign exchange rates movement between the U.S. dollar and the Australian dollar and higher net profit write-ups in the prior year quarter.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


