fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest ("subsidiaries") and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-02 ("ASC 842"), which supersedes the lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The Company did not elect the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term for existing leases and in assessing impairment for the ROU assets.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded $433 million and $486 million of ROU assets and lease liabilities, respectively, primarily due to its operating leases, to the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, which applies a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset over the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement date based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
As the Company generally does not know the implicit rate for its leases, the discount rate used is the Company’s incremental borrowing rate which is determined based on the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments on a collateralized basis over a similar term.
The remaining lease cost is allocated over the remaining lease term on a straight-line basis unless another systematic or rational basis is more representative of the pattern in which the underlying asset is expected to be used.
Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in the determination of ROU assets and lease liabilities using the index or rate at the lease commencement date, whereas variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate are recorded as lease expense in the period incurred.
As a result of the adoption of ASC 842, the Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and instead account for both components as a single lease.
The related lease payments on the Company’s short-term facilities and equipment leases are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Option periods are included in the lease term if the Company determines that it is reasonably certain the customer will exercise an option.
The Company will account for them as one unit of account if the timing and pattern of transfer is identical for both the lease and the non-lease components and the lease component would be classified as an operating lease if accounted for separately.
Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was $17 million and $36 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, respectively and $18 million and $84 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%.
The Company currently expects construction to be completed and to take occupancy of the building by April 1, 2020, at which point the Company's lease agreements for its current corporate headquarters will terminate.


item2.txt
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, we changed the composition of our Defense Solutions reportable segment to better align the operations within the reportable segment to the customers we serve.
In September 2018, Congress passed and the President signed a consolidated appropriations bill funding the Departments of Defense, Labor, and Health and Human Services for the full government fiscal year ("GFY") 2019.
The increase in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three and nine months ended September 27, 2019, was 10.6% and 8.4%, as compared to an actual increase in revenues of 10.1% and 7.9%, respectively.
The foreign currency impact was mainly attributable to adverse exchange rate movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended September 27, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 28, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards and a net increase in program volumes, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The increase in revenues for the nine months ended September 27, 2019, as compared to the nine months ended September 28, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards and a net increase in program volumes, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts, lower net profit write-ups in the current year and adverse exchange rate movements in the Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
The increase in operating income for the three months ended September 27, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 28, 2018, was primarily due to new awards and favorable program mix, partially offset by lower net profit write-ups in the current quarter.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.


