fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company consolidates the financial results for MSA into its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
The Company did not elect the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term for existing leases and in assessing impairment for the ROU assets.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded $433 million and $486 million of ROU assets and lease liabilities, respectively, primarily due to its operating leases, to the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, which applies a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
The Company is evaluating the provisions of ASU 2016-13, in conjunction with ASU 2018-19 and ASU 2019-05, and their impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset over the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement date based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
The Company's leases may also include variable lease payments such as an escalation clause based on consumer price index rates, maintenance costs and utilities.
The related lease payments on the Company’s short-term facilities and equipment leases are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The impact on diluted earnings per share ("EPS") attributable to Leidos common stockholders is calculated using the Company's statutory tax rate.
Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was $15 million and $19 million for the quarter and six months ended June 28, 2019, respectively and $32 million and $66 million for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively.
At June 28, 2019 and December 28, 2018, the Company included $62 million and $56 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%.
The Company currently expects construction to be completed and to take occupancy of the building by April 1, 2020, at which point the Company's lease agreements for its current corporate headquarters will terminate.
During the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, the Company had $38 million and $80 million of net rental expense, respectively.
The Company disaggregates revenues by customer-type, contract-type and geographic location for each of its reportable segments.


item2.txt
During the three and six months ended June 28, 2019, we generated approximately 87% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
In September 2018, Congress passed and the President signed a consolidated appropriations bill funding the Departments of Defense, Labor, and Health and Human Services for the full government fiscal year ("GFY") 2019.
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 8% of total revenues for the three and six months ended June 28, 2019.
The increase in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three and six months ended June 28, 2019, was 8.4% and 7.2%, as compared to an actual increase in revenues of 7.9% and 6.7%, respectively.
The increase in revenues for the six months ended June 28, 2019, as compared to the six months ended June 29, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards and a net increase in program volumes, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts, lower net profit write-ups in the current year and adverse exchange rate movements in the Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
The increase in operating income for the three and six months ended June 28, 2019, as compared to the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, was primarily due to new awards, partially offset by lower net profit write-ups in the current year.
The increase in revenues for the six months ended June 28, 2019, as compared to the six months ended June 29, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards and a net increase in program volumes, partially offset by the impact of the sale of our commercial cybersecurity business during the three months ended March 29, 2019, the completion of certain contracts, lower net profit write-ups in the current year and adverse exchange rate movements in the British pound when compared to the U.S. dollar.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


