fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company has a controlling interest in Mission Support Alliance, LLC ("MSA"), a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88%.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest ("subsidiaries") and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
Comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments (see "Note 18–Business Segments").
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-02 ("ASC 842"), which supersedes the current lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
Comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, which eliminates the requirement that a credit loss on a financial instrument be "probable" prior to recognition.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, which applies a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
A prospective approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date and loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality.
The Company is evaluating the provisions of ASU 2016-13, in conjunction with ASU 2018-19 and ASU 2019-05, and their impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Company has facilities and equipment lease arrangements.
An ROU asset is initially measured by the present value of the remaining lease payments, plus initial direct costs and prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives received before commencement.
The Company's leases may also include variable lease payments such as an escalation clause based on consumer price index rates, maintenance costs and utilities.


item2.txt
Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
In addition, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments.
While this activity did not have a material impact on the Company's reportable segments, prior year segments results have been recast to reflect this change.
During the three and six months ended June 28, 2019, we generated approximately 87% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Earlier in 2018, funding for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Energy as well as funding for Congress were also enacted.
All were funded at increased levels from the previous year.
From the expiration of that CR until the passage of a new CR on January 25, 2019 there was a partial U.S. government shutdown, which reduced or delayed work on existing contracts and caused delays in other government contracting actions and payments.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


