fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company operates in three reportable segments; Defense Solutions, Civil and Health.
The Company has a controlling interest in Mission Support Alliance, LLC ("MSA"), a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88% effective January 26, 2018.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest (“subsidiaries”) and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Effective beginning of fiscal 2018, the Company established a new CAS structure and revised its disclosure statements accordingly to reflect the related cost accounting practice changes.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09 (ASC 606) and related amendments, which superseded all prior revenue recognition methods and industry-specific guidance.
The core principle of ASC 606 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of control for promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2018-02, the Company's policy to release income tax effects in accumulated other comprehensive income is to be consistent with the underlying book method.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, which supersedes the current lease guidance under ASC 840 and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
The Company accounts for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies.
Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately.
Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer.
Certain of the Company's cost-plus and fixed-price contracts contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that may either increase or decrease the transaction price.
In such cases, the Company recognizes revenue on a net basis.


item2.txt
Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
All 12 Appropriation bills were funded and no federal department or agency is now operating under a continuing resolution.
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 10% of total revenues for the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenue, operating income, cash flows from operations and diluted EPS.
The decrease in revenues for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily attributable to timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, the completion of certain contracts and net volume decreases, partially offset by revenues from new awards.
The increase in operating loss for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily attributable to an asset impairment charge of $7 million and higher corporate costs due to bid and proposal, business development and marketing.
For the three months ended March 30, 2018, our effective tax rate was 18.4% compared to 31.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Item 1A.


