Item 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures



Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”). Based on that evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.



Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting



There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, as that term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act, that occurred during the period covered by this quarterly report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.



As previously disclosed, the Company adopted the new revenue recognition guidance under Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The adoption required the Company to establish new accounting policies and implement new accounting processes, including internal controls necessary to have reasonable assurance that the new accounting policy and process objectives are met. These processes and the related internal controls were not subject to the Company’s most recent annual evaluation and assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Significant changes arising from the adoption of Topic 606 include a new revenue recognition software system to measure periodic revenue, interfaces between the new IT system and the Company’s legacy IT systems, processes to estimate stand-alone selling price for performance obligations, and additional or modified controls to identify performance obligations in its contracts, validate data accuracy in its IT systems, and identify and separately account for customer contract modifications. As a result, the changes in the Company’s internal controls and processes to meet the requirements of Topic 606 had a material effect on its internal control over financial reporting during fiscal year 2019.



Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.



Item 5. OTHER INFORMATION



None.



Item 6. EXHIBITS





SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.







