On March 6, 2019, the Xerox Board of Directors approved a reorganization (the “Reorganization”) of the Company's corporate structure into a holding company structure.
On July 31, 2019, Xerox completed the Reorganization, pursuant to which Xerox became a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox Holdings Corporation ("Xerox Holdings").
In this Reorganization, shareholders of Xerox (the predecessor publicly held parent company) became shareholders of Xerox Holdings on a one-for-one basis; maintaining the same number of shares and ownership percentage as held in Xerox immediately prior to the Reorganization.
Each share of Xerox Holdings Series A Preferred Stock has the same designations, rights, powers and preferences, and the same qualifications, limitations and restrictions as the shares of Xerox Series B Preferred Stock, with the addition of certain voting rights.
Shares of Xerox Holdings common stock will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the current ticker symbol “XRX”, formerly used by Xerox.
Subsequent to the Reorganization, Xerox Holdings contributed the Xerox Series B Preferred Stock it held to Xerox in exchange for additional capital and Xerox subsequently extinguished the Series B Preferred Stock.
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting).
HCL is expected to make certain up-front and ongoing investments in software, tools and other technology to consolidate, optimize and automate the transferred functions with the goal of providing improved service levels and significant cost savings.
The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs for additional information.We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
Lower revenues from our mid-range ConnectKey devices also reflected the continued impact of organizational changes within our XBS sales organization as part of Project Own It.
The decline in Equipment sales primarily reflected lower revenues from our mid-range products, which were impacted by organizational changes within XBS sales organization, as we transitioned a significant number of accounts from U.S. Enterprise in the first half of 2019.
Second quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox increased $69 million as compared to second quarter 2018 primarily due to lower Transaction and related costs, net and higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.
Net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased $179 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Transaction and related costs, net and Income tax expense.2.0 Certificate of Merger dated July 31, 2019 between Xerox Merger Sub, Inc. and Xerox Corporation.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.2.0 Certificate of Merger dated July 31, 2019 between Xerox Merger Sub, Inc. and Xerox Corporation.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.