References to “Xerox Holdings” refer to Xerox Holdings Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries while references to “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the activity for both Xerox Holdings and Xerox for all periods presented, unless otherwise noted.
On March 6, 2019, the Xerox Board of Directors approved a reorganization (the “Reorganization”) of the Company's corporate structure into a holding company structure.
Each share of Xerox Holdings Series A Preferred Stock has the same designations, rights, powers and preferences, and the same qualifications, limitations and restrictions as the shares of Xerox Series B Preferred Stock, with the addition of certain voting rights.
Subsequent to the Reorganization, Xerox Holdings contributed the Xerox Series B Preferred Stock it held to Xerox in exchange for additional capital and Xerox subsequently extinguished the Series B Preferred Stock.
In March 2019, as part of Project Own It, we entered into a shared services arrangement with HCL Technologies (HCL) pursuant to which we are outsourcing certain global administrative and support functions, including, among others, selected information technology and finance functions (excluding accounting).
HCL is expected to make certain up-front and ongoing investments in software, tools and other technology to consolidate, optimize and automate the transferred functions with the goal of providing improved service levels and significant cost savings.
The spending commitment excludes restructuring and related costs we are expected to incur in connection with the transition of the contemplated functions - refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs for additional information.In March 2019, Xerox Corporation (“Xerox”) announced plans to create a new public holding company, Xerox Holdings Corporation (“Xerox Holdings”), by implementing a holding company reorganization (the “Reorganization”).
Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation, Corporate Reorganization, in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Reorganization.
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
The decline in Equipment sales primarily reflected lower revenues from our mid-range products, which were impacted by organizational changes within the XBS sales organization, that continue to stabilize, as we transitioned a significant number of accounts from U.S. Enterprise in the first half of 2019.2.0 Certificate of Merger dated July 31, 2019 between Xerox Merger Sub, Inc. and Xerox Corporation.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.1 Xerox Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.2.0 Certificate of Merger dated July 31, 2019 between Xerox Merger Sub, Inc. and Xerox Corporation.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.
3.1 Xerox Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Department of State of New York on July 31, 2019.