The correction of the PBO was recorded as an out-of-period adjustment in the third quarter 2018 with the offset to the balance sheet recorded as a credit to Changes in defined benefit plans, net in Other comprehensive income for the period.
We assessed the impact of this error and concluded that it was not material to the financial statements previously issued for any interim or annual period and the correction of the error in the third quarter 2018 is not expected to be material to the annual financial statements for 2018.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five-step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize revenue upon invoicing the customer for the large majority of our revenue.
These revenues relate to certain analyst services performed in connection with the installation of equipment that are being considered part of the equipment sale performance obligation in 2018.
As a result of this change, $8 and $25 of revenue was recorded, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods.
However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to Retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts.
Substantially all of this adjustment is related to the deferral of sales commissions paid to sales people and agents in connection with the placement of equipment with post sale service arrangements.We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
Refer to Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this terminated transaction and related matters.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC.
Total revenue of $2.35 billion for third quarter 2018 declined 5.8% from third quarter 2017 and included a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
Post sale revenue, which primarily reflects contracted services, equipment maintenance, supplies and financing, was $1.84 billion and represented 78% of total revenue.Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(B) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2018.This program replaces the $245 million of authority remaining under Registrant’s previously authorized share repurchase program.