Item 1. Financial Statements.
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business
Basis of Presentation
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31. The fiscal quarters consist of 13 weeks and end on the Saturday generally nearest each calendar quarter end, adjusted to provide relatively equivalent business days for each fiscal quarter. The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. References herein to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced. All references to dollar amounts herein are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business. At that time, Management believed it was probable that the sale of the building and land would occur in the next twelve months. As of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management believes that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months. These assets, all of which are Property, plant and equipment, are presented as "Assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements within the Form 10-K. No additional significant accounting policies have been adopted during Fiscal 2018.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
There have been no accounting pronouncements adopted during Fiscal 2018 that have had a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Given the scope of work required to implement the recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard, the Company has continued to make progress through the third quarter of Fiscal 2018. Black Box will adopt the standard under the modified retrospective transition approach, which will result in a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings at the date of initial application in the first quarter Fiscal 2019. The Company has established an implementation team that has and will continue to review 1) contract terms and existing accounting policies to determine the financial impact of the standard, 2) data availability and system reports to meet the additional disclosure requirements of the standard, and 3) the control environment and internal processes to ensure the appropriate controls are in place. As we continue to assess all potential impacts of the standard, any preliminary conclusions are subject to change.
The following table details the estimated intangibles amortization expense for the remainder of Fiscal 2018, each of the succeeding four fiscal years and the periods thereafter.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio covenant is suspended until the second quarter of Fiscal 2019. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and a provision requiring the Company to repay revolving credit loans with any excess cash. During that same period, a covenant will limit capital expenditures to an agreed upon 
amount. The ability of the Company to make dividends or other distributions (including stock repurchases other than up to a limited dollar amount for tax payments from vested equity awards) has been eliminated.
The leverage ratio covenant that starts in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 will be 4.00 to 1.00 and will reduce to 3.00 to 1.00 over the remaining life of the credit facility. A fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00 to 1.00 begins in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 increasing to 1.10 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019 and thereafter. 
The Company is exposed to certain market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses derivative instruments to manage financial exposures that occur in the normal course of business. It does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative trading purposes. The Company is exposed to non-performance risk from the counterparties in its derivative instruments. This risk would be limited to any unrealized gains on current positions. To help mitigate this risk, the Company transacts only with counterparties that are rated as investment grade or higher and all counterparties are monitored on a continuous basis. The fair value of the Company’s derivatives reflects this credit risk.
The Company enters into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposure to variability in expected fluctuations in foreign currencies. All of the foreign currency contracts have been designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of any changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments is recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI") until the hedged forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings. Once the forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings, the effective portion of any related gains or losses on the cash flow hedge is reclassified from AOCI to the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had open contracts in Australian and Canadian dollars, Danish krone, Euros, Mexican pesos, Norwegian kroner, British pounds sterling, Swedish krona, Swiss francs and Japanese yen, all of which have been designated as cash flow hedges. These contracts had a notional amount of $33,354 and will expire within 3 months. There was no hedge ineffectiveness during Fiscal 2018 or Fiscal 2017.
The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include non-financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Since the inception of its repurchase programs beginning in April 1999 and through December 31, 2017, the Company has repurchased 11,392,851 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $408,621, or an average purchase price per share of $35.87. These shares do not include the treasury shares withheld for tax payments due upon the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares. As of December 31, 2017, 1,107,149 shares were available under the most recent repurchase programs.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable. This restriction is in effect until May 9, 2021, the termination date of the Amended Credit Agreement. The Company expects to use the funds that were previously available for stock repurchases to supplement spending for our previously announced U.S.-based ERP project and to develop and implement growth initiatives for the Company, both of which we believe will create long-term shareholder value. See Note 5 for additional information regarding our Amended Credit Agreement.
The Company provides for income taxes at the end of each interim period based on the estimated effective tax rate adjusted for certain discrete items for the full fiscal year. Cumulative adjustments to the Company's estimate are recorded in the interim period in which a change in the estimated annual effective rate is determined.
Based on the available evidence, a valuation allowance of $6,236 has been recorded against deferred tax assets relating to U.S. Federal foreign tax credits for $6,061, and state and foreign net operating losses for $17 and $158, respectively, for the three-
In August 2008, the Company’s stockholders approved the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Incentive Plan"), which replaced the 1992 Stock Option Plan, as amended, and the 1992 Director Stock Option Plan, as amended. As of December 31, 2017, the Incentive Plan is authorized to issue stock options, restricted stock units and performance shares, among other types of awards, for up to 6,498,331 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "common stock").
Stock options
Stock option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant; such stock options generally become exercisable in equal amounts over a three-year period and have a contractual life of ten years from the grant date. The fair value of stock options is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $2.48 and $3.74, respectively. The intrinsic value of options exercised during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $8 and $0, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table is based on the closing stock price of the common stock on December 29, 2017, which was $3.55.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $950 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.
Restricted stock units
Restricted stock unit awards are subject to a service condition and typically vest in equal amounts over a three-year period from the grant date. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of restricted stock units granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $1,902 and $2,039, respectively.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $2,480 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.
Performance share awards
Performance share awards are subject to one of the performance goals - the Company's Relative Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") Ranking or cumulative Adjusted EBITDA - each over a three-year period. The Company’s Relative TSR Ranking metric is based on the three-year cumulative return to stockholders from the change in stock price and dividends paid between the starting and ending dates. The fair value of performance share awards (subject to cumulative Adjusted EBITDA) is determined based on the number of performance shares granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of performance share awards (subject to the Company’s Relative TSR Ranking) is estimated on the grant date using the Monte-Carlo simulation valuation method which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $0 and $0, respectively, as there were no payouts because certain performance obligations were not met.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $1,355 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested performance share awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.
The Weighted-average common shares outstanding (diluted) computation is not impacted during any period where the exercise price of a stock option is greater than the average market price. There were 1,872,446 and 1,165,620 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the three-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 1,808,928 and 1,202,159 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, that are not included in the corresponding period Weighted-average common shares outstanding (diluted) computation.
The Company conducts business globally and is managed on a geographic-service type basis consisting of four operating segments which are (i) North America Products, (ii) North America Services, (iii) International Products and (iv) International Services. These operating segments are also the Company's reporting units for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment and its reporting segments for financial reporting purposes. Revenues within our North America segments are primarily attributed to the United States while revenues within our International segments are attributed to countries in Europe, the Pacific Rim and Latin America. 
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those of the Company. The Company allocates resources to its operating segments and evaluates the performance of the operating segments based upon operating income. 
In connection with the Amended Credit Agreement disclosed in Note 5, the Company is required to make payments of $6,250 on its term loan over the next 12 months. Correspondingly, the Company expects its long-term payments (greater than 1 year) under the credit facility to decrease by $6,250. 
The following table summarizes the changes to the restructuring liability for the periods presented.
Of the $3,877 above, $3,829 is classified as a current liability under Other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets for the period ended December 31, 2017.
Company management is continuing to assess ways to align costs with revenue to improve profitability.
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
The following is provided to update the following risk factors previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of the Form 10-K and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors of the Form 10-Q for the first quarter in Fiscal 2018.
In August 2017, we amended our senior credit agreement to avoid a default of our then existing leverage covenant. Our amended credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019. A leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 through maturity in May 2021. 
Based upon our current projections, we may not be able to generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 (ending March 31, 2018) in order to meet the minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant for that quarter. If we fail to meet such minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant, the lenders would have the ability to exercise all of their legal and contractual remedies for default including, among others, the right to cease extending credit under the credit facility, to declare all outstanding obligations under the credit facility (including all outstanding indebtedness) to be immediately due and payable, to take action to protect its security interests in the collateral (which is substantially all of the assets of the Company) including taking possession thereof, and to increase the interest rate under the credit facility. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
