See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Basis of Presentation
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31. The fiscal quarters consist of 13 weeks and end on the Saturday generally nearest each calendar quarter end, adjusted to provide relatively equivalent business days for each fiscal quarter. The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2018 and 2017 were June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively. References herein to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced. All references to dollar amounts herein are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business. At that time, Management believed it was probable that the sale of the building and land would occur in the next twelve months. As of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management believes that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months. As of the first quarter of Fiscal 2019, Management continues to believe that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months. These assets, all of which are Property, plant and equipment, are presented as "Assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
Going Concern
Please see Note 6 for a description of and defined terms regarding our Credit Agreement, Amended Credit Agreement, and Second Amended Credit Agreement. On June 29, 2018, the Company and all the Lenders entered into the Second Amendment to our Credit Agreement ("Second Amended Credit Agreement" or "Second Amendment") in order to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility. The Company would have defaulted the minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and certain other covenants as defined by the Amended Credit Agreement had these defaults not been waived under the Second Amendment. See Note 6 for additional information. We anticipate that our principal sources of liquidity, including this LIFO Facility, will be sufficient to fund our activities through approximately December 2018.
Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on raising additional capital to repay our indebtedness when due and to fund our operations and ultimately on generating future profitable operations. As part of the Company’s review of its strategic alternatives, the Company agreed under the Second Amended Credit Agreement to pursue the sale of its Federal Business (as defined in Note 6). The Company entered into an executed purchase agreement with respect to the sale of the Federal Business on August 17, 2018 which is expected to close on or before August 31, 2018. The Company believes the expected net proceeds from the sale of the Federal Business will enable the Company to take further steps to generate additional liquidity, including entering into a transaction, selling additional assets or businesses, or obtaining alternative financing, as well as making changes to the overall cost structure of the business. We believe these plans, if successfully executed, may remediate the current liquidity concerns. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient additional capital through these plans, which have not yet been consummated outside of an executed purchase agreement with respect to the sale of the Federal Business, to repay all of our indebtedness under the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements within the Form 10-K. The Company's significant accounting policy as it relates to revenues has been updated to reflect ASC 606 (as defined in the Recent Accounting Pronouncements below).
Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenues in a manner that best depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers for amounts that reflect the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Products revenues are recognized at the point in time in which control of the products transfer to customers. Services revenues include network integration services, in which revenues are recognized over time either using either a cost-to-cost input method or a time and materials input method as those services are provided. The Company has historically made reasonably accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion under the cost-to-cost input method. However, due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Services revenues also include on demand services, in which revenues are recognized typically when completed, due to the short-term duration of this work (which typically spans one to thirty days), and maintenance services, in which revenues are recognized over time using a time-based method. These maintenance services are generally pre-billed and are recorded in deferred revenue within the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognized into revenues over the service period. Refer to Note 3 for additional information.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
As of April 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and subsequent Updates (collectively, "ASC 606" or "the standard") using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The reported results for periods presented in Fiscal 2019 reflect the application of ASC 606 while the reported results for periods presented in Fiscal 2018 were prepared under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in accounting principle that will more closely align revenue recognition with the delivery of the Company's services and will provide financial statement readers with enhanced disclosures. The core principle of ASC 606 is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expected to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. 
Disaggregation of revenues
The following table breaks down revenues by offering types at the operating segment level for the first quarter of Fiscal 2019. Refer to the Performance obligations section below for further information on these offering types.
Performance obligations
Products revenues represent product-only networking solutions sold through our Products platform. The Company employs point in time revenue recognition to our Products revenues when control of these products transfer to our customers, which generally occurs upon shipment from the Company's location. Payments are due from customers after we satisfy these performance obligations. While it is our standard business practice to control products and services before these products and services are transferred to customers, and thus act as the principal in arrangements, there are certain arrangements in which the Company acts as an agent whereby revenues are recognized for the amounts into which we expect to be entitled to when our performance obligations as the agent are satisfied, which has historically been at a point in time. 
Revenues recognized in the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, as a result of changes in estimates under the cost-to-cost input method or otherwise, were not significant. Revenues related to remaining unsatisfied performance obligations from open contracts that have not yet been recognized through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 are $302,397, $157,438 of which is expected to be recognized in the next six months.
The following table summarizes information about the Company's contract balances.
Accounts receivable increased $10,385 mainly due to the timing of revenues recognized in the quarter, primarily driven by our commercial services and federal businesses within North America Services. Costs in excess of billings decreased $5,350 as a result of as a result of changes related to customer projects in the North America commercial services business as well as due to the ASC 606 adjustment to best depict the Company's performance on projects under the cost-to-cost input method, as described above. Billings in excess of costs decreased $1,504 stemming from an increase in average collection days, primarily driven by the commercial and federal businesses in North America Services, partially offset by an increase due to the aforementioned ASC 606 adjustment. Deferred revenue, including the long-term portion which is included in Other liabilities within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets, increased $1,358 as a result of deferral of revenues associated with certain extended warranties under ASC 606, partially offset by changes related to customer maintenance contracts in the North America commercial services business. During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $15,872 and $7,601 that was included in deferred revenue and billings in excess of costs at March 31, 2018, respectively.
The Company has taken the practical expedient as outlined in ASC 606-10-65-1(f)(4) which aggregates the effect to the opening balance sheet of all contract modifications that occur through the adoption date. We have also taken the practical expedient as outlined in ASC 340-40-25-4 where we will recognize the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset that the entity otherwise would have recognized is one year or less. While the Company has incremental commission costs associated with contracts greater than one year in duration, these amounts earned for the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 were not significant. The Company also incurs incremental costs to fulfill contracts, which are capitalized and amortized over the associated contract lives; however, these amounts for the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 were not significant.
Regarding policy elections, the Company has elected to account for shipping and handling activities performed by the Company after the transfer of title as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer products and not evaluate whether these activities are promised services that should be treated as separate performance obligations. The Company has also elected to present all sales taxes collected from customers on a net basis.
The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets consist solely of the Company’s trademark portfolio. The Company’s definite-lived intangible assets now consist solely of customer relationships.
The following table details the estimated intangibles amortization expense for the remainder of Fiscal 2019, each of the succeeding four fiscal years and the periods thereafter.
In addition, the Company finances certain vendor-specific inventory under an unsecured revolving arrangement through third parties which provide extended payment terms beyond those offered by the vendor at no incremental cost to the Company. The outstanding balance for these unsecured revolving arrangements was $2,696 as of June 30, 2018, $2,478 of which is classified as a current liability, and $1,814 as of March 31, 2018, $1,596 of which was classified as a current liability. These balances are recorded as other liabilities within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio covenant is suspended until the second quarter of Fiscal 2019. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and a provision requiring the Company to repay revolving credit loans with any excess cash. During that same period, a covenant will limit capital expenditures to an agreed upon amount. The ability of the Company to make dividends or other distributions (including stock repurchases other than up to a limited dollar amount for tax payments from vested equity awards) has been eliminated.
On June 29, 2018, the Company and certain direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company (collectively, the “Guarantors” and together with the Company, the “Loan Parties”) entered into a Second Amendment (the “Second Amended Credit Agreement” or the “Second Amendment”) with PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent (the “Agent”), and certain other lenders party thereto (together with the Agent, the “Lenders”) to amend the Credit Agreement entered into among the Loan Parties, the Agent and the Lenders on May 9, 2016 (as amended by the Amendment and Joinder Agreement, dated August 9, 2017, the “Amended Credit Agreement,” and as further amended by the “Second Amended Credit Agreement”).
The Second Amended Credit Agreement established a new “last in first out” senior revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $10,000 (the “LIFO Facility”). The borrowings under the LIFO Facility will be used to finance the Company’s cash flow needs, subject to an approved budget and certain variance restrictions, including payments to vendors to allow the Company to operate in the ordinary course of its business. Interest on the LIFO Facility is LIBOR plus 10.0%. The Company entered into the Second Amendment to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility. The Company would have defaulted the minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and certain other covenants as defined by the Amended Credit Agreement had these defaults not been waived under the Second Amendment.
The Second Amended Credit Agreement also revised the Company’s covenants under the Amended Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) suspend the leverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio covenants until December 15, 2018; (ii) modify the minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant to require that the Company’s minimum consolidated EBITDA for the three fiscal month period ending on the close of each fiscal month equal or exceed (i) negative $3,000 for the fiscal months ending June 30, 2018, July 31, 2018 and August 31, 2018, and (ii) negative $3,500 for the fiscal months ending September 30, 2018 and thereafter; 
The Company’s obligations under the Second Amended Credit Agreement continue to be secured by substantially all of the personal property assets of the Company and all of the Company’s direct and indirect owned subsidiaries that are incorporated (or organized) under the laws of the District of Columbia or under the laws of any state or commonwealth of the United States (other than BBOX Holdings Mexico LLC). In addition, under the Second Amendment, the Company’s obligations are required to be secured by additional collateral, including (i) a first-priority pledge of all of the capital stock of each existing and subsequently acquired or organized subsidiary of the Loan Parties not pledged under the Credit Agreement, with certain exceptions; and (ii) mortgages over certain material real property of the Loan Parties located in the U.S. The Company is also required to cause the execution of deposit account control agreements with respect to certain U.S. bank accounts of the Loan Parties and to deliver to the Agent executed assignment agreements and forms of notice of assignment with respect to certain federal government contracts. Such notices may be sent upon an event of default or potential default. 
Effectiveness of the Second Amendment was subject to certain conditions precedent, each of which were satisfied on June 29, 2018. The outstanding balance of the LIFO Facility and all accrued and unpaid interest, fees and expenses are due and payable on December 15, 2018 or the earlier proper termination of the LIFO Facility by the Agent following an event of default.
The maximum amount of debt outstanding under the Second Amended Credit Agreement, the weighted-average balance outstanding under the Second Amended Credit Agreement and the weighted-average interest rate on all outstanding debt for the three-months ended June 30, 2018 was $157,500, $156,186 and 5.7%, respectively, compared to $171,237, $140,455 and 2.8%, respectively, for the three-months ended June 30, 2017 under the Credit Agreement.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had $9,825 outstanding in letters of credit and $10,000 in unused commitments, which are limited by a financial covenant, under the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
The Company is exposed to certain market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses derivative instruments to manage financial exposures that occur in the normal course of business. It does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative trading purposes. The Company is exposed to non-performance risk from the counterparties in its derivative instruments. This risk would be limited to any unrealized gains on current positions. To help mitigate this risk, the Company transacts only with counterparties that are rated as investment grade or higher and all counterparties are monitored on a continuous basis. The fair value of the Company’s derivatives reflects this credit risk.
The Company enters into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposure to variability in expected fluctuations in foreign currencies. All of the foreign currency contracts have been designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of any changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments is recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI") until the hedged forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings. Once the forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings, the effective portion of any related gains or losses on the cash flow hedge is reclassified from AOCI to the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had open contracts in Australian and Canadian dollars, Danish krone, Euros, Mexican pesos, Norwegian kroner, British pounds sterling, Swedish krona, Swiss francs and Japanese yen, all of which have been designated as cash flow hedges. These contracts had a notional amount of $47,885 and will expire within 2 months. There was no hedge ineffectiveness during Fiscal 2019 or Fiscal 2018.
The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include non-financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Under the Second Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable. This restriction is in effect until May 9, 2021, the termination date of the Second Amended Credit Agreement. See Note 6 for additional information regarding our Second Amended Credit Agreement.
The Company provides for income taxes at the end of each interim period based on the estimated effective tax rate adjusted for certain discrete items for the full fiscal year. Cumulative adjustments to the Company's estimate are recorded in the interim period in which a change in the estimated annual effective rate is determined.
In August 2008, the Company’s stockholders approved the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Incentive Plan"), which replaced the 1992 Stock Option Plan, as amended, and the 1992 Director Stock Option Plan, as amended. As of June 30, 2018, the Incentive Plan is authorized to issue stock options, restricted stock units and performance shares, among other types of awards, for up to 6,676,734 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "common stock").
Stock options
Stock option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant; such stock options generally become exercisable in equal amounts over a three-year period and have a contractual life of ten years from the grant date. The fair value of stock options is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the three-months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $1.47 and $2.51, respectively. The intrinsic value of options exercised during the three-months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $0 and $0, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table is based on the closing stock price of the common stock on June 29, 2018, which was $2.03.
As of June 30, 2018, there was $2,996 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years.
Restricted stock units
Restricted stock unit awards are subject to a service condition and typically vest in equal amounts over a three-year period from the grant date. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of restricted stock units granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the three-months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $332 and $1,894, respectively.
As of June 30, 2018, there was $1,500 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years.
Performance share awards
Performance share awards are subject to one of the performance goals - the Company's Relative Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") Ranking or cumulative Adjusted EBITDA - each over a three-year period. The Company’s Relative TSR Ranking metric is based on the three-year cumulative return to stockholders from the change in stock price and dividends paid between the starting and ending dates. The fair value of performance share awards (subject to cumulative Adjusted EBITDA) is determined based on the number of performance shares granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of performance share awards (subject to the Company’s Relative TSR Ranking) is estimated on the grant date using the Monte-Carlo simulation valuation method.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the three-months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $0 and $0, respectively, as there were no payouts because certain performance obligations were not met.
As of June 30, 2018, there was $534 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested performance share awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years.
The Weighted-average common shares outstanding (diluted) computation is not impacted during any period where the exercise price of a stock option is greater than the average market price. There were 3,242,964 and 1,796,632 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the three-months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, that are not included in the corresponding period Weighted-average common shares outstanding (diluted) computation.
The Company conducts business globally and is managed on a geographic-service type basis consisting of four operating segments which are (i) North America Products, (ii) North America Services, (iii) International Products and (iv) International Services. These operating segments are also the Company's reporting units for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment and its reporting segments for financial reporting purposes. Revenues within our North America segments are primarily attributed to the United States while revenues within our International segments are attributed to countries in Europe, the Pacific Rim and Latin America. 
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those of the Company. The Company allocates resources to its operating segments and evaluates the performance of the operating segments based upon operating income.
In connection with the Amended Credit Agreement disclosed in Note 6, the Company is required to make payments of $8,750 on its term loan over the next 12 months. Correspondingly, the Company expects its long-term payments (greater than 1 year) under the credit facility to decrease by $8,750.
The following table summarizes the changes to the restructuring liability for the periods presented.
The restructuring liability amount shown above is classified as a current liability under other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets for the period ended June 30, 2018.
Company management is continuing to assess ways to align costs with revenues to improve profitability.
On August 17, 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell the Federal Business to a private equity firm for a cash purchase price of $75 million. The buyer has agreed to purchase 100% of the equity interests of the Federal Business on a debt-free, cash-free basis. Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and the parties anticipate a closing on or before August 31, 2018. All net cash proceeds of the Sale Transaction will first be used to pay down loans outstanding under the LIFO Facility, and after, repayment of such loans, the Company’s other indebtedness under the Second Amended Credit Agreement. Refer to Note 6 for additional information. Revenues and gross profit for the Federal Business for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 were $119.0 million and $30.1 million, respectively. 
