Item 1. Financial Statements.
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business
Basis of Presentation
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31. The fiscal quarters consist of 13 weeks and end on the Saturday generally nearest each calendar quarter end, adjusted to provide relatively equivalent business days for each fiscal quarter. The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of September 30, 2018 and 2017 were September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. References herein to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced. All references to dollar amounts herein are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, the Company completed the sale of its Federal Business (as defined in Note 6). The results of the Federal Business have been presented as discontinued operations and the related assets and liabilities have been reclassified as held for sale for all periods presented. See Note 16 for additional information.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business. At that time, Management believed it was probable that the sale of the building and land would occur in the next twelve months. As of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management believes that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months. As of the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, Management continues to believe that only the sale of certain parcels of 
the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months. These assets, all of which are Property, plant and equipment, are presented as "Current assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
Going Concern
Please see Note 6 for a description of and defined terms regarding our Credit Agreement, Amended Credit Agreement, and Second Amended Credit Agreement. On June 29, 2018, the Company and all the Lenders entered into the Second Amendment to our Credit Agreement ("Second Amended Credit Agreement" or "Second Amendment") in order to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility. The Company would have defaulted the minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and certain other covenants as defined by the Amended Credit Agreement had these defaults not been waived under the Second Amendment. See Note 6 for additional information. We anticipate that our principal sources of liquidity, including this LIFO Facility, will be sufficient to fund our activities through the maturity of the LIFO Facility which is currently expected to be January 17, 2019.
Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on raising additional capital to repay our indebtedness when due and to fund our operations and ultimately on generating future profitable operating results. As part of the Company’s review of its strategic alternatives, the Company agreed under the Second Amended Credit Agreement to pursue the sale of its Federal Business (as defined in Note 6). On August 27, 2018, the Company completed the sale of the Federal Business. 
On November 11, 2018, Black Box entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with AGC Networks Pte Ltd. Refer to Note 17 for additional information.
The Company believes the net proceeds from the sale of the Federal Business and the availability under the LIFO will enable the Company to operate through the expected period it will take to close the Merger Agreement, and continues to look into further actions to improve cash flow. 
Significant Accounting Policies
The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements within the Form 10-K. The Company's significant accounting policy as it relates to revenues has been updated to reflect ASC 606 (as defined in the Recent Accounting Pronouncements below).
Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenues in a manner that best depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers for amounts that reflect the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Products revenues are recognized at the point in time in which control of the products transfer to customers. Services revenues include network integration services, in which revenues are recognized over time either using either a cost-to-cost input method or a time and materials input method as those services are provided. The Company has historically made reasonably accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion under the cost-to-cost input method. However, due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Services revenues also include on demand services, in which revenues are recognized typically when completed, due to the short-term duration of this work (which typically spans one to thirty days), and maintenance services, in which revenues are recognized over time using a time-based method. These maintenance services are generally pre-billed and are recorded in deferred revenue within the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognized into revenues over the service period. Refer to Note 3 for additional information.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
As of April 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and subsequent Updates (collectively, "ASC 606" or "the standard") using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The reported results for periods presented in Fiscal 2019 reflect the application of ASC 606 while the reported results for periods presented in Fiscal 2018 were prepared under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in accounting principle that will more closely align revenue recognition with the delivery of the Company's services and will provide financial statement readers with enhanced disclosures. The core principle of ASC 606 is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expected to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. 
The adoption of ASC 606 had no impact on the Company’s net cash used for operating activities and only resulted in offsetting adjustments to net loss and various working capital balances. 
Disaggregation of revenues
The following tables break down revenues by offering types at the operating segment level. Refer to the Performance obligations section below for further information on these offering types.
Performance obligations
Under ASC 606, revenues are to be recognized when or as performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to a customer. Companies must determine, at contract inception, whether control of a good or service transfers to a customer over time or at a point in time. 
Products revenues represent product-only networking solutions sold through our Products platform. The Company employs point in time revenue recognition to our Products revenues when control of these products transfer to our customers, which generally occurs upon shipment from the Company's location. Payments are due from customers after we satisfy these performance obligations. While it is our standard business practice to control products and services before these products and services are transferred to customers, and thus act as the principal in arrangements, there are certain arrangements in which the Company acts as an agent whereby revenues are recognized for the amounts into which we expect to be entitled to when our performance obligations as the agent are satisfied, which has historically been at a point in time. 
Revenues recognized in the three- and six-months ended September 30, 2018 periods from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, as a result of changes in estimates under the cost-to-cost input method or otherwise, were $1,604 and $1,275, respectively. Revenues related to remaining unsatisfied performance obligations from open contracts that have not yet been recognized through the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 are $237,226, $117,372 of which is expected to be recognized in the next six months.
The following table summarizes information about the Company's contract balances.
Accounts receivable increased $4,859 mainly due to the timing of revenues recognized in the quarter, primarily driven by increased collections at the previous fiscal year end. Costs in excess of billings decreased $1,870 as a result of as a result of changes related to infrastructure projects in North American Services. Billings in excess of costs decreased $371 stemming from an increase in average collection days, primarily driven by infrastructure projects in North American Services. Deferred revenue, including the long-term portion which is included in Other liabilities within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets, decreased $2,771 as a result of a decline in maintenance services revenues in North American Services. During Fiscal 2019, the Company recognized revenues of $23,610 and $5,490 that was included in deferred revenue and billings in excess of costs at March 31, 2018, respectively.
The Company has taken the practical expedient as outlined in ASC 606-10-65-1(f)(4) which aggregates the effect to the opening balance sheet of all contract modifications that occur through the adoption date. We have also taken the practical expedient as outlined in ASC 340-40-25-4 where we will recognize the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset that the entity otherwise would have recognized is one year or less. While the Company has incremental commission costs associated with contracts greater than one year in duration, these amounts earned were not significant during the period. The Company also incurs incremental costs to fulfill contracts, which are capitalized and amortized over the associated contract lives; however, these amounts were not significant.
Regarding policy elections, the Company has elected to account for shipping and handling activities performed by the Company after the transfer of title as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer products and not evaluate whether these activities are promised services that should be treated as separate performance obligations. The Company has also elected to present all sales taxes collected from customers on a net basis.
Transition impact
The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets consist solely of the Company’s trademark portfolio. The Company’s definite-lived intangible assets now consist solely of customer relationships.
The following table details the estimated intangibles amortization expense for the remainder of Fiscal 2019, each of the succeeding four fiscal years and the periods thereafter.
In addition, the Company finances certain vendor-specific inventory under an unsecured revolving arrangement through third parties which provide extended payment terms beyond those offered by the vendor at no incremental cost to the Company. The outstanding balance for these unsecured revolving arrangements was $2,308 as of September 30, 2018, $2,090 of which is classified as a current liability, and $1,814 as of March 31, 2018, $1,596 of which was classified as a current liability. These balances are recorded as other liabilities within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio covenant was suspended until the second quarter of Fiscal 2019. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and a provision requiring the Company to repay revolving credit loans with any excess cash. During that same period, a covenant will limit capital expenditures to an agreed upon amount. The ability of the Company to make dividends or other distributions (including stock repurchases other than up to a limited dollar amount for tax payments from vested equity awards) has been eliminated.
The leverage ratio covenant that starts in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 will be 4.00 to 1.00 and will reduce to 3.00 to 1.00 over the remaining life of the credit facility. A fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00 to 1.00 begins in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 increasing to 1.10 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019 and thereafter. 
On June 29, 2018, the Company and certain direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company (collectively, the “Guarantors” and together with the Company, the “Loan Parties”) entered into a Second Amendment (the “Second Amended Credit Agreement” or the “Second Amendment”) with PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent (the “Agent”), and certain other lenders party thereto (together with the Agent, the “Lenders”) to amend the Credit Agreement entered into among the Loan Parties, the Agent and the Lenders on May 9, 2016 (as amended by the Amendment and Joinder Agreement, dated August 9, 2017, the “Amended Credit Agreement,” and as further amended by the “Second Amended Credit Agreement”).
The Second Amended Credit Agreement established a new “last in first out” senior revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $10,000 (the “LIFO Facility”). The borrowings under the LIFO Facility will be used to finance the Company’s cash flow needs, subject to an approved budget and certain variance restrictions, including payments to vendors to allow the Company to operate in the ordinary course of its business. Interest on the LIFO Facility is LIBOR plus 10.0%. The Company entered into the Second Amendment to waive and modify certain covenants and other provisions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement and to fund its ongoing operations with the LIFO Facility. The Company would have defaulted the minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and certain other covenants as defined by the Amended Credit Agreement had these defaults not been waived under the Second Amendment.
As part of the Company’s review of its alternatives, the Company has agreed under the Second Amended Credit Agreement to pursue the sale (the “Sale Transaction”) of its federal government IT services business (the “Federal Business”). On August 27, 2018, the Company completed the sale of the Federal Business. All net cash proceeds of the Sale Transaction were used to pay down loans outstanding under the LIFO Facility, and after, repayment of such loans, the Company’s other indebtedness under the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
The Second Amended Credit Agreement also revised the Company’s covenants under the Amended Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) suspend the leverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio covenants until December 15, 2018; (ii) modify the minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant to require that the Company’s minimum consolidated EBITDA for the three fiscal month period ending on the close of each fiscal month equal or exceed (i) negative $3,000 for the fiscal months ending June 30, 2018, July 31, 2018 and August 31, 2018, and (ii) negative $3,500 for the fiscal months ending September 30, 2018 and thereafter; (iii) reduce the sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit to $10,000; (iv) require periodic delivery of updated budgets and budget variance reports to the Agent and compliance with certain disbursement and net cash flow variance thresholds; (v) restrict the incurrence of expenses related to implementation of the ERP system; (vii) require that the net cash proceeds from certain asset sales and certain excess cash be used to prepay the Company’s obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement; and (viii) require 
the repatriation to the Loan Parties of cash on hand above a certain amount maintained by certain excluded foreign subsidiaries of the Loan Parties and restrict the transfer of assets by the Loan Parties (other than inventory in the course of ordinary business) to such excluded foreign subsidiaries unless accounted for in the budget. As of September 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Second Amended Credit Agreement.
The Company’s obligations under the Second Amended Credit Agreement continue to be secured by substantially all of the personal property assets of the Company and all of the Company’s direct and indirect owned subsidiaries that are incorporated (or organized) under the laws of the District of Columbia or under the laws of any state or commonwealth of the United States (other than BBOX Holdings Mexico LLC). In addition, under the Second Amendment, the Company’s obligations are required to be secured by additional collateral, including (i) a first-priority pledge of all of the capital stock of each existing and subsequently acquired or organized subsidiary of the Loan Parties not pledged under the Credit Agreement, with certain exceptions; and (ii) mortgages over certain material real property of the Loan Parties located in the U.S. The Company is also required to cause the execution of deposit account control agreements with respect to certain U.S. bank accounts of the Loan Parties and to deliver to the Agent executed assignment agreements and forms of notice of assignment with respect to certain federal government contracts. Such notices may be sent upon an event of default or potential default. 
Effectiveness of the Second Amendment was subject to certain conditions precedent, each of which were satisfied on June 29, 2018. The outstanding balance of the LIFO Facility and all accrued and unpaid interest, fees and expenses were originally due and payable on December 15, 2018 or the earlier proper termination of the LIFO Facility by the Agent following an event of default. On November 17, 2018, the maturity of the LIFO Facility was extended from December 15, 2018 until January 17, 2019, subject to certain terms and conditions.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had $9,825 outstanding in letters of credit and $10,000 in unused commitments.
The Company is exposed to certain market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses derivative instruments to manage financial exposures that occur in the normal course of business. It does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative trading purposes. The Company is exposed to non-performance risk from the counterparties in its derivative instruments. This risk would be limited to any unrealized gains on current positions. To help mitigate this risk, the Company transacts only with counterparties that are rated as investment grade or higher and all counterparties are monitored on a continuous basis. The fair value of the Company’s derivatives reflects this credit risk.
The Company enters into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposure to variability in expected fluctuations in foreign currencies. All of the foreign currency contracts have been designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of any changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments is recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI") until the hedged forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings. Once the forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings, the effective portion of any related gains or losses on the cash flow hedge is reclassified from AOCI to the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include non-financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Since the inception of its repurchase programs beginning in April 1999 and through September 30, 2018, the Company has repurchased 11,392,851 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $408,621, or an average purchase price per share of $35.87. These shares do not include the treasury shares withheld for tax payments due upon the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares. As of September 30, 2018, 1,107,149 shares were available under the most recent repurchase programs.
Under the Second Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable. This restriction is in effect until May 9, 2021, the termination date of the Second Amended Credit Agreement. See Note 6 for additional information regarding our Second Amended Credit Agreement.
The Company's benefit from income taxes for the three-months ended September 30, 2018 was $7,742, an effective tax rate of 55.6% on a loss before provision for income taxes of $13,932, compared to a provision for income taxes of $1,948, an effective tax rate of (18.6)% on a loss before provision for income taxes of $10,500 for the three-months ended September 30, 2017. The Company's benefit from income taxes for the six-months ended September 30, 2018 was $8,412, an effective tax rate of 35.8% on loss before benefit for income taxes of $23,476, compared to a benefit for income taxes of $3,278, an effective tax rate of 12.3% on loss before benefit for income taxes of $26,641 for the six-months ended September 30, 2017. The effective tax rate increase from 12.3% to 35.8% was primarily due to the intraperiod tax allocation of valuation allowances between continuing and discontinued operations.
The Company provides for income taxes at the end of each interim period based on the estimated effective tax rate adjusted for certain discrete items for the full fiscal year. Cumulative adjustments to the Company's estimate are recorded in the interim period in which a change in the estimated annual effective rate is determined.
In August 2008, the Company’s stockholders approved the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Incentive Plan"), which replaced the 1992 Stock Option Plan, as amended, and the 1992 Director Stock Option Plan, as amended. As of September 30, 2018, the Incentive Plan is authorized to issue stock options, restricted stock units and performance shares, among other types of awards, for up to 6,676,734 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "common stock").
Stock options
Stock option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant; such stock options generally become exercisable in equal amounts over a three-year period and have a contractual life of ten years from the grant date. The fair value of stock options is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the six-months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $1.44 and $2.51, respectively. The intrinsic value of options exercised during the six-months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $0 and $0, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table is based on the closing stock price of the common stock on September 28, 2018, which was $1.03.
As of September 30, 2018, there was $2,397 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.3 years.
Restricted stock units
Restricted stock unit awards are subject to a service condition and typically vest in equal amounts over a three-year period from the grant date. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of restricted stock units granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the six-months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $338 and $1,894, respectively.
As of September 30, 2018, there was $953 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.4 years.
Performance share awards
Performance share awards are subject to one of the performance goals - the Company's Relative Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") Ranking or cumulative Adjusted EBITDA - each over a three-year period. The Company’s Relative TSR Ranking metric is based on the three-year cumulative return to stockholders from the change in stock price and dividends paid between the starting and ending dates. The fair value of performance share awards (subject to cumulative Adjusted EBITDA) is determined based on the number of performance shares granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of performance share awards (subject to the Company’s Relative TSR Ranking) is estimated on the grant date using the Monte-Carlo simulation valuation method.
The total fair value of shares that vested during the six-months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $0 and $0, respectively, as there were no payouts because certain performance obligations were not met.
As of September 30, 2018, there was $380 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested performance share awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.4 years.
The Weighted-average common shares outstanding (diluted) computation is not impacted during any period where the exercise price of a stock option is greater than the average market price. There were 3,020,924 and 2,507,792 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the three-months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 3,020,924 and 2,507,792 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the six-months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, that are not included in the corresponding period Weighted-average common shares outstanding (diluted) computation.
The Company conducts business globally and is managed on a geographic-service type basis consisting of four operating segments which are (i) North America Products, (ii) North America Services, (iii) International Products and (iv) International Services. These operating segments are also the Company's reporting units for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment and its reporting segments for financial reporting purposes. Revenues within our North America segments are primarily attributed to the United States while revenues within our International segments are attributed to countries in Europe, the Pacific Rim and Latin America. 
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those of the Company. The Company allocates resources to its operating segments and evaluates the performance of the operating segments based upon operating income.
The following table summarizes the changes to the restructuring liability for the periods presented.
The restructuring liability amount shown above is classified as a current liability under other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets for the period ended September 30, 2018.
Company management is continuing to assess ways to align costs with revenues to improve profitability.
On August 27, 2018, the Company completed the sale of the Federal Business for $75.0 million in cash. The sale resulted in a gain of $31.0 million, net of tax of $8.9 million. The results of the Federal Business have been presented as discontinued operations and the related assets and liabilities have been reclassified as held for sale for all periods presented. The Federal Business was previously included in the North America Services reporting segment.
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Risks Related to the Merger Agreement, the Offer and the Merger
As soon as practicable (and in any event within one business day) following the consummation of the Offer, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company (the “Merger”) in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the “DGCL”) and Section 251(h) thereof. Each Share that is not tendered and accepted pursuant to the Offer (other than Shares owned by BBX Intermediate, Merger Sub or the Company, or by any of their direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, and Shares held by stockholders of the Company who are entitled to demand and who will have properly and validly demanded their statutory rights of appraisal in compliance in all respects with Section 262 of the DGCL) will be automatically converted into the right to receive the Offer Price at the time of the Merger, and the Company will survive the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of BBX Intermediate, all upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement. 
BBX Intermediate has obtained debt financing commitments from Pathlight Capital LLC and Encina Business Credit, LLC, and Parent has obtained an equity financing commitment from Essar Telecom Limited, an entity organized under the laws of Mauritius and an affiliate of the Parent Entities, in each case to fund the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and subject to certain conditions. The Offer is not subject to a financing condition.
•costs relating to the Merger Agreement and the Offer, such as legal, financial, and accounting fees, much of which must be paid regardless of whether the Offer and the Merger are completed;
•restrictions under the Merger Agreement that require the Company to operate its business in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice pending consummation of the Merger and require the Company to obtain Parent’s prior 
written consent during the interim period between the execution of the Merger Agreement and the closing of the Merger (or the date on which the Merger Agreement is earlier terminated) to take certain actions with respect to our business and financial affairs.
•we may be unable to find a partner willing to engage in a similar transaction on terms as favorable as those set forth in our agreements with the Parent Entities; 
•we may lack sufficient liquidity to continue operations for a period of time that is adequate to find a partner to engage in a similar transaction; 
•failure to complete the contemplated transactions may substantially limit our ability to operate the business on an ongoing basis.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
