fls.txt



item1.txt
Pursuant to an amendment approved by our shareholders on November 12, 2009, the number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan is reduced by 1.5 shares for each share awarded as a stock grant or a stock unit, and any shares underlying awards outstanding from certain previous plans that expire unexercised at the end of their maximum terms become available for reissuance under the 2005 Plan.
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on our closing stock price of $44.25 as of October 26, 2018.
We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised goods or services in a contract with a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
We recognized approximately $3.4 billion of revenue during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at July 29, 2018.
There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
The most significant impact of this accounting standard update is that it requires the remeasurement of investments not accounted for under the equity method to be recorded at fair value through the Consolidated Statement of Operations at the end of each reporting period.
Pro forma results of operations and the revenue and net income subsequent to the acquisition date for the acquisitions completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 have not been presented because the effects of the acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our financial results.
We announced a restructuring plan in August 2016 (the "Fiscal 2017 Plan"), in order to reinvest in our key priority areas.
We provide financing arrangements to customers for all of our hardware, software and service offerings.
As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies.
Our strategy is to lead our customers in their digital transition with solutions that deliver greater agility, productivity, security and other advanced network capabilities, and that intelligently connect nearly everything that can be connected.
We are required to allocate the purchase price of the repurchased shares as (i) a reduction to retained earnings and (ii) a reduction of common stock and additional paid-in capital.
As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions.
All such outstanding amounts, including any accrued interest, will be assessed and fully reserved at the customer level.
In addition, the business had total liabilities of approximately $290 million (primarily comprised of deferred revenue and various other current and long-term liabilities).


item2.txt
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.
Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset.
Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events.
Risk Factors” in this report.
On September 13, 2001, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program.


item3.txt
Financing Receivables As of October 27, 2018, our financing receivables had a carrying value of $9.5 billion, compared with $9.8 billion as of July 28, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
As a result of one or more of these factors, we may increase our hiring in geographic areas outside the United States, which could subject us to additional geopolitical and exchange rate risk.
A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales.
For example, emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in product orders in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, in fiscal 2017 and in certain prior periods.
Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future.
However, alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas.
A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes.
Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future.


