fls.txt



item1.txt
To limit the exposure related to foreign currency changes, we enter into foreign currency contracts.
Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate, in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products.
For example, Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money options, unvested restricted stock, and restricted stock units.
In addition, the business had total liabilities of approximately $200 million (primarily comprised of deferred revenue and various other current and long-term liabilities).
Our portfolio includes available-for-sale debt investments and equity investments, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center.
Our perpetual software and hardware in this category are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control.
Level 3 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Credit risk ratings of 7 and higher correspond to substandard ratings.
Deferred sales commissions were $705 million and $644 million as of April 27, 2019 and July 29, 2018, respectively, and were included in other current assets and other assets.
We do, however, seek to mitigate such risks by limiting our counterparties to major financial institutions.
Each PRSU recipient could vest in 0% to 150% of the target shares granted contingent on the achievement of our financial performance metrics or our comparative market-based returns and 0% to 100% of the target shares granted contingent on the achievement of non-financial operating goals.
We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts.


item2.txt
Although these withheld shares are not issued or considered common stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program and therefore are not included in the preceding table, they are treated as common stock repurchases in our financial statements as they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued upon vesting (see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
From a product category perspective, total product revenue, not including SPVSS products in the prior year period, increased 7% year over year.
We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and payment of dividends as discussed below.
The increase was driven by a 5% product revenue increase in Infrastructure Platforms, solid product revenue growth in Applications of 9%, and strong growth in Security of 21%.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Service gross margin percentage decreased by 0.1 percentage points due to increased headcount-related costs and increased delivery costs.
The change in other gains (losses), net was driven by higher donation expense in the prior year, and favorable foreign exchange impacts.


item3.txt
Debt As of April 27, 2019, we had $20.5 billion in principal amount of senior notes outstanding, which consisted of $0.5 billion floating-rate notes and $20.0 billion fixed-rate notes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
While we work diligently with law enforcement authorities in various countries to block the manufacture of counterfeit goods and to interdict their sale, and to detect counterfeit products in customer networks, and have succeeded in prosecuting counterfeiters and their distributors, resulting in fines, imprisonment and restitution to us, there can be no guarantee that such efforts will succeed.
Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners.
When facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations.
Although these withheld shares are not issued or considered common stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program and therefore are not included in the preceding table, they are treated as common stock repurchases in our financial statements as they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued upon vesting (see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
Historically, our primary exposures have related to nondollar-denominated sales in Japan, Canada, and Australia and certain nondollar-denominated operating expenses and service cost of sales in Europe, Latin America, and Asia, where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars.
Although variability to date has not been significant, there can be no assurance that changes in the balance of our distribution model in future periods would not have an adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability.


