fls.txt



item1.txt
As a result of the decrease in the federal tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, the Company has computed its income tax expense for the July 28, 2018 fiscal year using a blended federal tax rate of 27%.
We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels.
Our strategy is to lead our customers in their digital transition with solutions that deliver greater agility, productivity, security and other advanced network capabilities, and that intelligently connect nearly everything that can be connected.
We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products.
We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels.
We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products.
These aggregate pretax charges are primarily cash based and consist of employee severance and other one-time termination benefits, and other associated costs.
The carrying value of these investments and the additional funding commitments collectively represent the Company's maximum exposure related to these variable interest entities.
Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants.
The purchase price for the shares of the Company’s stock repurchased is reflected as a reduction to shareholders’ equity.
Further, sales of our products outside of agreed territories can result in disruption to our distribution channels.
We have experienced component shortages in the past, including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations.
DXC Technology On August 21, 2015, the Company and Cisco Systems Capital Corporation (“Cisco Capital”) filed an action in Santa Clara County Superior Court for declaratory judgment and breach of contract against HP Inc. (“HP”) regarding a services agreement for management services of a third party’s network.
The Company’s primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices.


item2.txt
Product revenue in the Americas segment increased by 6%, led by solid growth in the service provider and public sector markets and, to a lesser extent, growth in the commercial market.
We expect to utilize this remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases over the next 18 to 24 months.
In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies including venture funds and provide financing to certain customers.
As of January 27, 2018, the liability for these purchase commitments was $159 million, compared with $162 million as of July 29, 2017, and was included in other current liabilities.
On February 14, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a $25 billion increase to the stock repurchase program.
The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate.
The increase in share-based compensation expense in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2017, was due primarily to higher expense related to equity awards assumed with respect to our recent acquisitions and higher restructuring charges.
The change in total net gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments was primarily attributable to higher realized gains on publicly traded equity securities, partially offset by higher realized losses on fixed income securities as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities.


item3.txt
We do not enter into foreign exchange forward or option contracts for speculative purposes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Additionally, a certain number of our facilities are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the past.
In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do.
As of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $30.5 billion that mature at specific dates from calendar year 2018 through 2040.
Some of our competitors compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area.
We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts.
Risks related to new product development also apply to acquisitions.
Although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel with contract manufacturers and suppliers.


