fls.txt



item1.txt
The fair value of the long-term debt is subject to market interest rate volatility.
In instances where SSP is not directly observable, we determine SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs.
Credit risk ratings of 7 and higher correspond to substandard ratings.
In addition, we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements.
This credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants, including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement.
When facing component supply-related challenges we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations, which in turn contributes to an increase in purchase commitments.
Stock incentive plans are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us.
In addition, we will be required to have available in the United States sufficient cash to service the interest on our debt and repay all of our notes on maturity.
Stock incentive plans are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us.
As of October 26, 2019, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under this credit facility.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $202 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.4 billion for interest, and $0.9 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of October 26, 2019.
For additional information regarding intellectual property litigation, see “Part II, Item 1A.
Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of service providers are also systems integrators.
TWC filed a petition for rehearing en banc on January 29, 2019, which was denied on March 19, 2019.
Under these interest rate swaps, we receive fixed-rate interest payments and make interest payments based on LIBOR plus a fixed number of basis points.


item2.txt
We use the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes.
Both accounts receivable and financing receivables are charged off at the point when they are considered uncollectible.
In connection with this restructuring plan, we incurred charges of $184 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and have incurred cumulative charges of $614 million since inception.
Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees.
The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as acquired technology under development, is determined at acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value.
We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers.


item3.txt
These equity securities are held for purposes other than trading.


item4.txt



part2.txt
For example, if we do not introduce products related to network programmability, such as software-defined-networking products, in a timely fashion, or if product offerings in this market that ultimately succeed are based on technology, or an approach to technology, that differs from ours, such as, for example, networking products based on “white box” hardware, our business could be harmed.
Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate, in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products.
Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using IP, encryption technology, sales or other taxes on Internet product or service sales, and access charges for Internet service providers.
Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate, in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products.
Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed.
Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on our vision or strategy because of challenges with regard to product planning and timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources.
Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could continue to be significant issues for us.


