fls.txt



item1.txt
Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may be costly to implement and meet with resistance, and may not be successful.
The Company’s primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices.
Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants.
In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed.
The 21% federal tax rate will apply to the Company’s fiscal year ending July 27, 2019 and each year thereafter.
As of April 28, 2018, the Company had $2.0 billion of unrecognized tax benefit, of which $1.7 billion, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective tax rate.
Share-Based Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that impacts the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated.
The changes in the fair value of these derivatives are also included in other income (loss), net.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $234 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.5 billion for interest, and $1.1 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of April 28, 2018.
These factors include the Company’s historical experience, credit quality and age of the receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer’s ability to pay.
For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated.
Cisco is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
2005 Plan  As of April 28, 2018, the maximum number of shares issuable under the 2005 Plan over its term was 694 million shares, plus shares from certain previous plans that are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled.


item2.txt
 (1) The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization and impairments of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, significant litigation settlements and other contingencies, charges related to asset impairments and restructurings, and certain other charges.
Switching returned to growth with revenue growth in our data center and campus switching.
The change in total net gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments was primarily attributable to higher realized gains on publicly traded equity securities and lower impairment charges on publicly traded equity securities, partially offset by higher realized losses on fixed income securities as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities.
Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets.
In connection with this restructuring plan, we incurred charges of $82 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018.
See the previous discussion of these financing guarantees under “Financing Receivables and Guarantees.”
As a result, the overall cost savings from these restructuring actions are not expected to be material for future periods.
Revenue in our Applications product category increased by 10%, or $344 million, with analytics from our fiscal 2017 acquisition of AppDynamics driving the majority of the increase along with revenue increases across our collaboration offerings.


item3.txt
We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers.


item4.txt



part2.txt
There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed.
Arista seeks injunctive relief, lost profits, enhanced damages, and restitution.
We may also make prioritization decisions in determining which vulnerabilities or security defects to fix, and the timing of these fixes, which could result in an exploit which compromises security.
Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed.
For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital.


