fls.txt



item1.txt
Our portfolio includes available-for-sale debt investments and equity investments, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged.
The fair value measurement was categorized as Level 3, as significant unobservable inputs were used in the valuation report.
Oyster filed infringement claims based on the ‘327 Patent against other defendants, including ZTE, Nokia, NEC, Infinera, Huawei, Ciena, Alcatel-Lucent, and Fujitsu, and the court consolidated the cases alleging infringement of the ‘327 Patent.
Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings.
Purchased intangible assets include intangible assets acquired through acquisitions as well as through direct purchases or licenses.
In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows.
Refer to Opening Balance Adjustments below for the impact of adoption on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Such slowdowns may continue or recur in future periods.
In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed.
In the ordinary course of business, we provide financing guarantees for various third-party financing arrangements extended to channel partners and end-user customers.
Available-for-sale debt investments are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Transfer of control occurs once the customer has the contractual right to use the product, generally upon shipment or once delivery and risk of loss has transferred to the customer.
Lease receivables represent sales-type and direct-financing leases resulting from the sale of Cisco’s and complementary third-party products and are typically collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets.


item2.txt
We classify our hardware, perpetual software licenses, and SaaS as distinct performance obligations.
We also lease equipment and vehicles.
Outside the United States, larger leased sites include sites in Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Germany, India, Japan, Mexico, Poland and the United Kingdom.
The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate.
Productivity improvements were driven by cost reductions including value engineering efforts (e.g.
We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products.
The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate, and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment.


item3.txt
The fair value of our marketable equity investments is subject to market price volatility.


item4.txt



part2.txt
As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners.
The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales.
The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages.
We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products.
We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts.
Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain other Infrastructure Platforms and Applications products, in addition to longer sales cycles.


