fls.txt



item1.txt
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”), and mobile devices.
We also operate esports events and leagues and create film and television content based on our intellectual property.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
Activision develops, markets, and sells products based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties.
We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim reporting.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
· subscriptions to players in our World of Warcraft franchise, which provide continual access to the game content.


item2.txt
Item 2.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”), and mobile devices.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.
King’s games are free to play, however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or directly using real currency.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Prior period results have not been restated to reflect this change in accounting standards.
· consolidated net revenues increased 3% to $5.12 billion, and consolidated operating income increased 19% to $1.29 billion, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $4.97 billion and consolidated operating income of $1.09 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; · revenues from digital online channels were $4.00 billion, or 78% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $4.05 billion, or 81% of consolidated net revenues, for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; · operating margin was 25.3%, as compared to 21.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017; · diluted earnings per common share increased 35% to $1.51, as compared to $1.12 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.


item3.txt
Primary currencies include euros, British pounds, Australian dollars, South Korean won, Chinese yuan, and Swedish krona.


item4.txt



part2.txt



