fls.txt



item1.txt
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”), and mobile devices.
We also operate esports events and leagues and create film and television content based on our intellectual property.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” As part of the continued implementation of our esports strategy, we instituted changes to our internal organization and reporting structure during 2017 such that the Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business operates as a division of Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (“Blizzard”).
MLG is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League™, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
Activision develops, markets, and sells products based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties.
We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim reporting.
The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.


item2.txt
Item 2.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”), and mobile devices.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination (the “Business Combination”) by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc. (“Vivendi Games”), then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
MLG is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League™, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
We monitor monthly active users (“MAUs”) as a key measure of the overall size of our user base.
MAUs are the number of individuals who accessed a particular game in a given month.
An individual who accesses two of our games would be counted as two users.


item3.txt
The fair values of our foreign currency contracts are estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period.
At March 31, 2018, our Cash Flow Hedges have remaining maturities of 12 months or less.


item4.txt



part2.txt



