fls.txt



item1.txt
Excludes deferral and amortization of share-based compensation expense.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A., and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform.
Activision’s key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms.
In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. (“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise.
Activision no longer has any material rights or obligations related to the Destiny franchise.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.
King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.


item2.txt
Item 2.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A, and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”), is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform.
Activision’s key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms.
In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. (“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise.
Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise.
Activision no longer has any material rights or obligations related to the Destiny franchise.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, Activision released CrashTM Team Racing Nitro-Fueled and Blizzard released the latest expansion to Hearthstone—Rise of ShadowsTM.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.


item3.txt
The fair values of our foreign currency contracts are estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period.
We do not hold or purchase any foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The Initial Decision described the basis for issuing a transfer pricing assessment of approximately 3.5kr billion (approximately $379 million), primarily concerning an alleged intercompany asset transfer.


