Item 1A.
Risk Factors

Factors That May Affect Future Results

Investments in our securities involve significant risks.
Even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock.
Investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our business, operating results, and stock price.
Our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations; as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.
Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate.
•unpredictable ordering patterns and limited or reduced visibility into our customers’ spending plans and associated revenue; 

•changes in customer mix; 

•changes in the demand for our products and services;

•changes in the mix of products and services sold; 

•changes in the mix of geographies in which our products and services are sold; 

•changing market and economic conditions, including the impact of tariffs; 

•current and potential customer, partner and supplier consolidation and concentration; 

•price and product competition; 

•long sales, qualification and implementation cycles; 

•success in new and evolving markets and emerging technologies;

•how well we execute on our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges;

•ability of our customers, channel partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers to purchase, market, sell, manufacture or supply our products (or components of our products) and services;

•financial stability of our customers, including the solvency of private sector customers and statutory authority for government customers to purchase goods and services;

•our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions;

•changes in tax laws or accounting rules, or interpretations thereof;

•changes in the amount and frequency of share repurchases or dividends; 

•regional economic and political conditions; and 

•seasonality.
For example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter.
In addition, while we may have backlog orders for products that have not shipped, we believe that our backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results for a number of reasons, including project delays, changes in project scope and the fact that our customers may cancel purchase orders or change delivery schedules without significant penalty.
Furthermore, market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, rebates and discounting, increased component or logistics costs, issues with product quality, regulatory impacts, tariffs and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations.
Such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term.
As a result of the factors described above, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be.
In some 


We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time.
We expect our product and service gross margins to vary, both in the near-term and in the long-term, and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, some of which have occurred and may occur in the future, including customer, vertical, product and geographic mix shifts, an increase or decrease in our software sales or services we provide, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, changes in the actions of our competitors or their pricing strategies, which may be difficult to predict and respond to, modifications to our pricing strategy in order to gain footprint in certain markets or with certain customers, currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products and services to our customers, increases in material, labor, logistics, warranty costs, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, issues with manufacturing or component availability, quality or efficiencies, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inaccurately forecasting product demand, warranty related issues, the impact of tariffs, or our introduction of new products and enhancements or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures.
For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
In fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
Failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.
Further, while we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, we expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals.
We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all.
A limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business.
In addition, there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate.
Any decrease in revenues from our customers or partners could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results.
A material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners.
Changes in the business requirements or focus, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased or delays in deployment) of our key customers could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results.
Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues and gross margin for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results.
Our revenues and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete.
Economic weakness or uncertainty, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings.
Such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast revenues and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to 


Our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.
We face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve.
The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation, Arista Networks, Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise Co., and Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, Inc., as well as companies such as Check Point Software Technologies, Ltd., and Fortinet, Inc. Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.
The long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter.
A customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process.
As a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy.
In particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders.
Throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products.
Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately.
Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products.
Customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis.
Accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis.
These long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, both of which may be exacerbated by the impact of global economic weakness, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter.
Due to the cost, complexity and custom nature of configurations required by our customers, we generally build our network equipment products as orders are received.
The volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter remains unpredictable.
If orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter.
The introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period.
As a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters.
Consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters.
Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of certain software products, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods.
Also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase such software or services revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from those software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable period.
Additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of our anticipated revenues and technology roadmap and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term.
As a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter.
We sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and IP infrastructure, and if the demand for network and IP systems does not continue to grow, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.
A substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure IP infrastructure and customers that depend on the continued growth of IP services to deploy our products in their networks and IP infrastructures.
As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand (all of which, have in the past, particularly affected telecommunications service providers), spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks.
During the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the software and equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly 

reduce or suspend their spending on secure IP infrastructure.
For example, in recent years, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest Cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift.
The duration of the delay is difficult to predict, in part because each Cloud customer will migrate their network architecture based on their own constraints.
Such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
If we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products, product enhancements and business strategies that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available or strategies are not executed in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer.
The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, continuous pricing pressures and a constantly evolving industry.
We may not be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all.
For example, the move from traditional wide area network, or WAN, infrastructures towards software-defined WAN, or SD-WAN, has been receiving considerable attention.
In our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of SD-WAN, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements.
If we fail to anticipate market requirements or opportunities or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and services, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In addition, if we invest time, energy and resources in developing products for a market that does not develop, it could likewise significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products, enhancements or business strategies, there can be no assurance that new products, enhancements or business strategies will achieve widespread market acceptance.
In recent years, we have announced a number of new products and enhancements to our hardware and software products across routing, switching and security.
The success of our new products depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, prompt resolution of any defects or bugs in these products, our ability to support these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors and market acceptance of these products.
•the possibility that our new software products or disaggregated products may not achieve widespread customer adoption;

•the possibility that our strategy could erode our revenue and gross margins;

•the impact on our financial results of longer periods of revenue recognition for certain types of software products

 and changes in tax treatment associated with software sales;

•the additional costs associated with regulatory compliance and changes we need to make to our distribution chain in connection with increased software sales;


•issues with third-party technologies used with our disaggregated products may be attributed to us.
If any of our new products or business strategies do not gain market acceptance or meet our expectations for growth, our ability 

to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected and our competitive position and our business and financial results could be harmed.
We are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to or disruptions in those relationships or manufacturing processes, expected or unexpected, may result in delays that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships.
We depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products.
Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price.
In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships.
Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which could include failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed.
We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products.
Such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors.
Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management.
Moreover, a significant portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including import tariffs, disruptions to our supply chain, or regional conflicts.
For example, the United States recently imposed a tariff on networking products imported from China; this includes certain products that we import into and sell within the United States.
If we cannot fully mitigate the impact of the tariffs, the increased cost could translate into higher prices for our customers, reduced customer demand or increased cost of goods sold.
In addition, increased costs of production or delays in production caused by any relocation of contract manufacturing facilities could impact the global competitiveness of our products.
Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers, including for key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages, quality issues or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future.
products sourced through the supply chain, the unavailability of raw materials, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, military conflicts, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility and other services.
The development of alternate sources for components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly.
In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules.
Also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory.
In the event of a component shortage, supply interruption or significant price increase from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner.
If we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management.
Failure to effectively manage the supply of components and products would adversely affect our business.
If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business.
System security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our and our customers’ proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price.
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our employees, contractors, customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks.
In addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties.
The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy.
The growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including Juniper, have been and are increasingly subject to the threat of intrusions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors, including but not limited to nation states, criminal enterprises, and terrorist organizations, on an ongoing and regular basis.
Despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches and may be vulnerable in the future to breaches or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breaches due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions.
If any breach or attack compromises our networks, creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks or those of our customers, suppliers or business partners could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost, destroyed or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, including regulatory entities, and suffer reputational and financial harm.
In addition, hardware, components and software (including operating system software) and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs", vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks or expose us or our products to cyber attacks.
This can be true even for “legacy” products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time.
Furthermore, third parties may attempt to exfiltrate data through the introduction into the Information and Communications Technology supply chain of malicious products and components that are designed to defeat or circumvent encryption and other cybersecurity measures, and if successful, such actions could diminish customer trust in our products, harm our business reputation, and adversely affect our business and financial condition.
When vulnerabilities are discovered, we evaluate the risk, apply patches or take other remediation actions as required and notify customers, business partners, and suppliers when appropriate.
All of this requires significant resources and time and attention from management and our employees.
As a result of any actual or perceived breach of network security that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our overall reputation could be harmed.
As a large, well known provider of networking products, cyber attackers may specifically target our products or attempt to imitate us or our products in order to compromise a network.
Because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused.
This could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions, which could have an adverse impact on our financial results.
The economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure, because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the attacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint.
Additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches.
We rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.
Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM, Dimension Data and NEC Corporation.
The majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors’ products, and some of which sell their own competing products.
Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners.
The loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues.
Our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products.
If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer.
In addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues at the time we sell products to our distributors.
If these sales are made based on inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted.
Further, our distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products.
They also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them, and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand.
We are also vulnerable to third parties who illegally distribute or sell counterfeit, stolen or unfit versions of our products, which has happened in the past and could happen in the future.
Such sales could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.
Further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel.
As a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage.
We have previously entered into OEM agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios.
These types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage.
Our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.
We also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
To the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties.
Dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively.
Some of our business processes depend upon our IT systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces between the two.
For example, on December 31, 2018, we entered into a Master Services Agreement and certain Statements of Work with IBM pursuant to which we will outsource significant portions of our IT and other administrative functions following a transition period.
These cloud providers, third party providers, and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption, including performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error, cybersecurity attacks and similar events.
In addition, because we lease off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms.
If we have issues receiving and processing data, this may delay our ability to provide products and services to our customers and business partners and damage our business.
We also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products.
If those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed.
Since IT is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of our IT providers could impair our ability to operate effectively.
In addition to the risks outlined above, problems with any of the third parties we rely on for our IT systems could result in liabilities to our customers and business partners, lower revenue and unexecuted efficiencies, and impact our results of operations and our stock price.
Integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders.
We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business.
For example, we acquired Mist Systems in 2019, HTBase in 2018 and Cyphort in 2017.
Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, liabilities, litigation, and diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions, initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners, and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire.
The integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions.
If we fail to successfully manage, operate or integrate any acquired business or if we are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization, including through the use of common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.
In connection with certain acquisitions, we may agree to issue common stock , or assume equity awards, that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, use a substantial portion of our cash resources, assume liabilities (both known and unknown), record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations.
We are a party to lawsuits, investigations, proceedings, and other disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
We, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our Board of Directors, have been or are subject to various lawsuits.
We have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement, as well as securities laws.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, is conducting, and the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, was previously conducting investigations into possible violations by the Company of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, in a number of countries.
The Company's Audit Committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, conducted a thorough internal review of possible violations of the FCPA, and the Company made improvements in its internal controls and carried out a number of disciplinary actions.
The Company is continuing to fully cooperate with the SEC’s ongoing investigation, and based on the recent communications with the Staff of the SEC, the Company believes it is likely that the Staff of the SEC will seek to bring an enforcement action against the Company.
The Company believes it is probable that it could incur a loss and has established an estimated legal reserve of $12.0 million related to the ongoing SEC investigation.
Litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain.
We therefore cannot predict the duration, scope, outcome or 


We are a party to litigation and claims regarding intellectual property rights, resolution of which may be time-consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing.
As we seek to sell more products to telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies and other large customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or impact the amount of revenues to be recognized.
Telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers.
For example, our customers France Telecom-Orange and Deutsche Telekom AG have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers.
As we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms.
Regulation of our industry in general and the telecommunications industry in particular could harm our operating results and future prospects.
We are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas.
For example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet country-specific safety, conformance or security certification criteria or in-country test requirements.
Other regulations that may negatively impact our business include local content or local manufacturing requirements most commonly applicable for government, state-owned enterprise or regulated industry procurements.
These types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes disclosure requirements applicable to public companies regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, which we refer to collectively as the DRC, and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict minerals.” These minerals are present in our products.
In addition, the European Union reached agreement in late 2016 on an EU-wide conflict minerals rule under which most EU importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores will have to conduct due diligence to ensure the minerals do not originate from conflict zones and do not fund armed conflicts.
Large manufacturers also will have to disclose how they plan to monitor their sources to comply with the rules.
The regulation was adopted in 2017 with compliance required by 2021.
In addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition.
These laws and regulations include, among others, the European Union, or EU, Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS.
The EU RoHS and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in electronic equipment, including our products.
Currently, our products comply with the EU RoHS requirements.
However, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse.
The lapse of any exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the EU or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations.
This reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us, disrupt our operations or logistics, and result in an adverse impact on our operating results.
In addition, in validating the compliance of our products with applicable hazardous materials restrictions, we rely substantially on affirmations by our component suppliers as to the compliance of their products with respect to those same restrictions.
Failure by our component suppliers to furnish accurate and timely information could subject us to penalties or liability for violation of such hazardous materials restrictions, interrupt our supply of products to the EU, and result in our customers refusing or being unable to purchase our products.
Additionally, the EU and a number of other jurisdictions have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life.
Finally, the EU REACH regulations regulate the handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products.
In addition, as a contractor and subcontractor to U.S. government departments and agencies, we are subject to federal regulations pertaining to our IT systems.
For instance, as a subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, or DFARS, required that our IT systems comply with the security and privacy controls described in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171, or NIST SP 800-171.
The DFARS also requires that we flow the security control requirement down to certain of our own subcontractors.
Failure to comply with these requirements could result in a loss of federal government business, subject us to claims or other remedies for non-compliance and negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment.
The adoption and implementation of additional regulations could reduce demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products, result in product inventory write-offs, impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, require us to spend significant time and expense to comply, and subject us to fines and civil or criminal sanctions or claims if we were to violate or become liable under such regulations.
Any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Governmental regulations and economic sanctions affecting the import or export of products generally or affecting products containing encryption capabilities, in particular, could negatively affect our revenues and operating results.
The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls and restrictions on the export of, among other things, products that contain or use encryption technology.
Most of our products contain or use encryption technology and, consequently, are subject to such controls, requirements and restrictions.
Certain governments, like those of Russia and China, control importation and in-country use of encryption items and technology.
The scope, nature and severity of such controls vary widely across different countries and may change frequently over time.
Increasingly, governments have begun using export and import controls not only to further national security objectives but also to protect local industries and restrict proliferation of locally developed “emerging or foundational technology."
For example, in 2018 the U.S. enacted the Export Control Reform Act, which expands the power of the Commerce Department to use export controls to protect domestic industry and to restrict the export of emerging and foundational technologies not currently subject to controls.
In furtherance of that law, on November 19, 2018, the United States Department of Commerce sought public comment on how to define emerging technologies.
Our ability to market and sell our products overseas may be impacted by such export controls.
In addition, the U.S. and other governments have especially broad sanctions and embargoes prohibiting provision of goods or services to certain countries, and territories, and to certain sanctioned governments, legal entities and individuals.
Some of these restrictions have been imposed not just to protect national security but also to protect domestic industries and to achieve political aims.
For instance, the U.S. Department of Commerce in 2018 added to its Entity List a Chinese semiconductor manufacturer on the express basis that it threatens the viability of U.S. competitors; the Entity List traditionally is used to restrict exports to end users that pose a security risk.
Particularly far reaching and complex are restrictions imposed by the U.S. and EU on exports to Russia and, in particular, to the disputed region of Crimea.
We have implemented systems to detect and prevent sales into these restricted countries or to prohibited entities or individuals, but there can be no assurance that our third party, downstream resellers and distributors will abide by these restrictions or have processes in place to ensure compliance, especially where local government regulation might prohibit adherence to such restrictions.
Certain governments also impose special local content, certification, testing, source code review, escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys, or other cybersecurity feature requirements to protect network equipment and software procured by or for the government.
Similar requirements also may be imposed in procurements by state owned entities (“SOE’s”) or even private companies forming part of “critical network infrastructure” or supporting sensitive industries.
For example, China, Vietnam and India have promulgated cybersecurity regulations affecting networking products that may impair our ability to profitably market and sell our products there.
China, in particular, is expected to require implementation of non-standard Chinese encryption algorithms in products sold into certain government, SOE, critical infrastructure and sensitive industry (such as financial institutions) markets.
In the U.S., there are new restrictions on the use of certain Chinese-origin components or systems either (1) in items sold to the U.S. government or (2) in the internal networks of government contractors and subcontractors (even if those networks are not used for government-related projects).
The U.S. government also might restrict or ban the use of certain Chinese-origin components and systems in next generation mobile communications networks (e.g.
5G).
In addition, governments sometimes impose additional taxes on certain imported products.
For example, the United States and Chinese governments each have imposed tariffs on certain products originating from the other country.
In 2018, the United States imposed tariffs on a large variety of products of China origin.
As a result, beginning September 24, 2018, a large portion of Juniper products manufactured in China became subject to a 10% tariff on importation into the U.S.
While the United States government postponed a planned rate increase to 25% while bilateral trade negotiations were on-going, the U.S. President announced on May 5, 2019, that the 25% rate would go into effect on May 10, 2019 due to the lack of negotiation progress.
In July 2019, the U.S. President reiterated his readiness to impose 25% tariffs on all remaining Chinese imports if negotiations are not successful and on August 1, 2019, he announced that he would impose a 10% tariff on all remaining Chinese imports effective September 1, 2019 during the ongoing negotiations; such action could subject certain components of Juniper products to tariff on importation into 

the U.S.
Depending upon its duration and implementation, as well as our ability to mitigate their impact, these tariffs could materially affect our business, including in the form of increased cost of goods sold, increased pricing for customers, and reduced sales.
On May 30, 2019, the U.S. President announced his intention to impose a tariff on imports from Mexico effective June 10, 2019.
The tariff rate was to start at 5% and gradually increase to 25% over the course of several months unless and until Mexico took steps to reduce the number of migrant crossings over the US-Mexico border.
While the President subsequently announced a delay of the tariff, he left open the possibility that the United States could impose a tariff in the near future.
As the President never issued an order imposing the tariff, its exact scope was not known.
Juniper does obtain products having Mexico as their country-of-origin, so it is possible that we would be subject to any such tariff.
Should the United States impose the tariff, we will determine its impact on our operations and conditions.
Governmental regulation of encryption or IP networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, or related economic sanctions could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues and operating results.
In addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation and ability to compete in international markets, penalties, costs, seizure of assets (including source code) and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects.
Our actual or perceived failure to adequately protect personal data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
A wide variety of provincial, state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data.
These privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations.
Further, our legal and regulatory obligations in foreign jurisdictions are subject to unexpected changes, including the potential for regulatory or other governmental entities to enact new or additional laws or regulations, to issues rulings that invalidate prior laws or regulations, or to increase penalties significantly.
Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services.
For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which became effective in May 2018, imposes more stringent data protection requirements, and provides for significantly greater penalties for noncompliance, than the EU laws that previously applied.
Additionally, California recently enacted legislation, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which will become effective January 1, 2020.
The CCPA will, among other requirements, require covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers, and allow such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information.
Legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the CCPA before the effective date.
It remains unclear the extent or timing of any modifications that will be made to the CCPA, or how such modifications will be interpreted.
The effects of the CCPA potentially are significant and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply.
We may also be subject to additional obligations relating to personal data by contract that industry standards apply to our practices.
Our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject relating to personal data, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, could result in enforcement actions and regulatory investigations against us, claims for damages by customers and other affected individuals, fines, damage to our reputation, and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance, and business.
Further, evolving and changing definitions of personal data and personal information, within the EU, the U.S., U.K., and elsewhere, including the classification of IP addresses, machine identification information, location data, and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business, including limiting business relationships and partnerships that may involve the sharing or uses of data, and may require significant costs, resources, and efforts in order to comply.
Our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel.
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel.
The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people with specialized industry expertise, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense.
None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term.
The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products.
A number of our team members are foreign nationals who rely on visas and entry permits in order to legally work in the United 

States and other countries.
In recent years, the United States has increased the level of scrutiny in granting H-1(B), L-1 and other business visas.
In addition, the current U.S. administration has made immigration reform a priority.
Compliance with United States immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals.
Any of these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions.
Our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives.
We are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or more frequently if certain circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible assets below their carrying values.
As of June 30, 2019, our goodwill was $3,338.3 million and our intangible assets with indefinite lives was $49.0 million.
When the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, or if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recorded.
Either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred.
We have in the past recorded goodwill impairment charges.
Declines in our level of revenues or declines in our operating margins, or sustained declines in our stock price, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives may become impaired in future periods.
Our goodwill impairment analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected future cash flows, the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets, and our stock price.
If the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future.
We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.
However, any such impairment would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results.
Furthermore, on October 5, 2015, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD, an international association of 35 countries including the U.S., published final proposals under its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or BEPS, Action Plan.
The BEPS Action Plan includes fifteen Actions to address BEPS in a comprehensive manner and represents a significant change to the international corporate tax landscape.
These proposals, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and adversely affect our provision for income taxes.
In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and other tax authorities.
It is possible that tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position 

and operating results.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, but the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.
There can be no assurance that the outcomes from continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
We may face difficulties enforcing our proprietary rights, which could adversely affect our ability to compete.
We generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products.
Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that any of our patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us or protect our technology, any of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings and other competitive harm.
In addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information.
However, we cannot assure you that we have entered into such agreements with all parties who may have or have had access to our confidential information or that the agreements we have entered into will not be breached.
We cannot guarantee that any of the measures we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology.
Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.
The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States.
Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled our success.
We are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
•changes in general IT spending,

•the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection;

•changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; 

•laws that restrict sales of products developed or manufactured outside of the country;

•varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations;

•fluctuations in local economies;

•wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market;

•tax policies that could have a business impact;

•import tariffs imposed by the United States and reciprocal tariffs imposed by foreign countries;

•data privacy rules and other regulations that affect cross border data flow; and


Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In addition, the U.K.’s exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets.
Brexit, if implemented, will take some period of time to complete and could result in regulatory changes that impact our business.
For example, changes to the way service providers conduct business and transmit data between the U.K. and the EU could require us to make changes to the way we handle customer data.
We will also review the impact of any resulting changes to EU or U.K. law that could affect our operations, such as labor policies, financial planning, product manufacturing, and product distribution.
Political and regulatory responses to the vote are still developing and we are in the process of assessing the impact the vote may have on our business as more information becomes available.
Nevertheless, because we conduct business in the EU, including the U.K., any of the effects of Brexit, including those we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.
There remains significant risk that the U.K. will exit from the EU without agreement between the EU and U.K. on terms addressing customs and trade matters.
The U.K.’s new Prime Minister has indicated that the U.K. must prepare for a no-deal Brexit.
If it occurs, this “Hard Brexit” scenario would mean, among other things, that U.K. Customs would have to clear a far greater daily volume of imports than it has ever had to before.
If U.K. Customs is not able to handle such increased volume, significant delays in imports may very well result, thereby potentially producing a short-term material adverse effect on our business.
Hard Brexit could result in further short-term uncertainty and currency volatility.
Additional currency volatility could drive a weaker British pound, which increases the cost of goods imported into our U.K. operations and may decrease the profitability of our U.K. operations.
A weaker British pound versus the U.S. dollar also causes local currency results of our U.K. operations to be translated into fewer U.S. dollars during a reporting period.
Any adjustments we make to our business and operations as a result of Brexit could result in significant time and expense to complete.
Our business is also impacted by the negotiation and implementation of free trade agreements between the United States and other nations.
Such agreements can reduce barriers to international trade and thus the cost of conducting business overseas.
For instance, the United States recently reached a new trilateral trade agreement with the Governments of Canada and Mexico to replace the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
If the United States either withdraws from NAFTA or fails to ratify the new agreement, known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (U.S.MCA), our cost of doing business within the three countries could increase.
Our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected defects, errors or malware or do not meet customer quality expectations, our business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to additional costs or lawsuits or be required to pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services.
Our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information.
Our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities.
These errors may arise from hardware or 

software we produce or procure from third parties.
Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers.
Any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in monetary penalties, negative publicity, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur.
In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty or indemnification.
Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention.
If our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.
Moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected.
We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates.
These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
The majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in U.S.
Dollars.
We also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Chinese Yuan, Euro, and Indian Rupee related to our sales and service operations outside of the United States.
An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States in which we sell in U.S.
Dollars.
This could negatively affect our ability to meet our customers' pricing expectations in those markets and may result in erosion of gross margin and market share.
A weakened U.S. Dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies.
Currently, we hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows, with the aim of offsetting the impact of currency fluctuations on these exposures.
However, hedge activities can be costly, and hedging cannot fully offset all risks, including long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar.
If our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.
If we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.
We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future.
If we fail to effectively improve our systems and processes or we fail to monitor and ensure that these systems and processes are being used correctly, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected.
If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business.
Our products are designed to interface with our customers’ existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors.
Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved.
Our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers’ requirements.
If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers’ networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled.
This could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects.
Our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected.
We integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products.
From time to time, we may be required to renegotiate our current third-party licenses or license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements or to facilitate new business models.
Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms.
The failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license.
Some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated for convenience by them.
In addition, we cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our licensors have sufficient rights to the licensed intellectual property in all jurisdictions in which we may sell our products.
Third- party technology we incorporate into our products that is deemed to infringe on the intellectual property of others may result, and in some cases has resulted, in limitations on our ability to source technology from those third parties, restrictions on our ability to sell products that incorporate the infringing technology, increased exposure to liability that we will be held responsible for incorporating the infringing technology in our products and increased costs involved in removing that technology from our products or developing substitute technology.
Our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
We rely on the availability and performance of information technology services provided by third parties, including IBM which will manage a significant portion of our systems.
Under the terms of our recent Master Services Agreement and certain Statements of Work, following a transition period, IBM will provide us with a broad range of information technology services, such as applications, including support, development and maintenance; infrastructure management and support, including for servers storage and network devices; and end user support including service desk.
We expect that our businesses will become dependent on the services provided and systems operated for us by IBM and its third-party providers.
The failure of one or more of these entities to meet our performance standards and expectations, including with respect to data security, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
Our success is dependent on our ability to maintain effective relationships with IBM and other third-party technology and service providers as well as the ability of IBM and any other third-party providers to perform as expected.
We may terminate our agreement with IBM and any and all Statements of Work at any time on short notice for cause, convenience, certain specific performance failures, a breach of warranties by IBM, failure to transition, failure to transform, changes in law, force majeure, or a change in the control of either IBM or us.
Depending on the type and timing of a termination, we may be required to pay certain termination amounts to IBM.
IBM's only right to terminate the agreement is based on our failure to comply with certain terms applying to disputed payments.
Our ability to realize the expected benefits of this arrangement is subject to various risks, some of which are not within our control.
These risks include, but are not limited to, disruption in services and the failure to protect the security and integrity of our data under the terms of the agreement.
We are unable to provide assurances that some or all of these risks will not occur.
Failure to effectively mitigate these risks, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results.
In addition, we could face significant additional costs or business disruption if our arrangement with IBM is terminated or impaired and we cannot find alternative IT services or support on commercially reasonable terms or on a timely basis or if we are unable to hire new employees in order to return these services in-house.
We are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and publicly disclose material weaknesses in our controls.
Any adverse results from such evaluation may adversely affect investor perception, and our stock price.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner.
We have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements.
If in the future, our internal controls over financial reporting are determined to be not effective resulting in a material weakness or significant deficiency, investor perceptions regarding the reliability of our 

financial statements may be adversely affected which could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition.
Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.
The major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness.
This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.
We may be unable to generate the cash flow to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our debt obligations, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of June 30, 2019, we have issued $1,800.0 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which we refer to collectively as the Notes, and had $1,790.0 million in total outstanding debt.
In April 2019, we entered into a new credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the Revolving Credit Facility, with an option to increase the Revolving Credit Facility by up to an additional $200.0 million, subject to the lenders' approval.
The credit agreement will terminate in April 2024, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid (subject to two one-year maturity extension options).
As of June 30, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility.
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
Our ability to pay our expenses, satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.
Based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Notes) or obtain additional financing.
There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
•incur liens;

•incur sale and leaseback transactions; and

•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person.
•maintenance of a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x (provided that if a material acquisition has been consummated,

we are permitted to maintain a leverage ratio no greater than 3.5x for up to four quarters) and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x

•covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.
Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business.
A failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could 

result in an acceleration of the indebtedness, which could result in an event of default under our other debt instruments.
Our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default.
In addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the Notes, and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
In addition, certain changes under the Tax Act may result in limitations on the deductibility of our net business interest expenses.
The Tax Act generally limits the annual deduction for net business interest expense to an amount equal to 30% of adjusted taxable income.
As a result, if our taxable income were to decline, we may not be able to fully deduct our net interest expense.
These changes, among others under the Tax Act, could result in increases to our future U.S. tax expenses, which could have a material impact on our business.
A portion of the transaction consideration we received from the divestiture of our Junos Pulse product portfolio is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, by the buyer under the note.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of our Junos Pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of Siris Capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million, of which $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest-bearing promissory note issued to the Company.
On May 1, 2017, we received a principal payment in the amount of $75.0 million and outstanding interest on the note, and we and the issuer agreed to further amend the terms of the note with respect to the remaining approximately $58.0 million to, among other things, extend the maturity date from December 31, 2018 to September 30, 2022, provided that interest due can be paid in kind by increasing the outstanding principal amount of the note and subordinate the note to other debt issued by senior lenders.
Since a portion of the transaction consideration is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and the note is subordinated to debt issued by senior lenders, there is the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, under the note.
In the event that the promissory note is not repaid on the terms we contemplate, any collection or restructuring efforts we undertake may be costly and require significant time and attention from our management and there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover the amounts owed to us in full.
Our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders or the failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.
Our ability to pay quarterly dividends or achieve our intended capital return policy will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and debt service requirements, use of cash for acquisitions and other factors.
Any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, or a reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.
In November 2018, we announced that for 2019, we intend to target a capital return policy, inclusive of share repurchases and dividends, of approximately 75% of annual free cash flow.
Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures.
In January 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $2.0 billion buyback authorization, which replaced our prior authorization.
In January 2019, our Board of Directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $0.19 per share.
In April 2019, as a part of our buyback authorization, we entered into a $300.0 million accelerated share repurchase program, or ASR, which will be completed in the third quarter of 2019, of which $240.0 million was for the initial repurchase and $60.0 million is a forward contract.
Any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.
The investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities and equity securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.
At June 30, 2019, we had $1,381.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,493.7 million in short-and long-term investments.
We have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, U.S. government agency securities, and U.S. government securities.
We also have $93.4 million in other long-term assets for our investments in privately-held companies.
Certain of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks.
Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary.
These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our amended and restated bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees.
Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to us or to our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our restated certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws; (iv) any action or proceeding asserting a claim as to which Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery or (v) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine.
The exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our current or former directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our current or former directors, officers, and other employees.
Alternatively, if a court were to find the exclusive forum provisions contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business.
Uninsured losses could harm our operating results.
We self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation, cybersecurity and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available.
We also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks.
We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions.
The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention.
The policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis.
In addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur.
Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Our stock price may fluctuate.
Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us.
Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, liabilities or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price.
In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in particular and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies.
From time to time, economic weakness has contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have also reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours.
These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future.
