Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which we refer to as the Report, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Juniper Networks, Inc., which we refer to as “we,” “us,” "Juniper," or the “Company,” that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about our business, economic and market outlook, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management.
Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “would,” “will,” “could,” “may,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, and these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.
Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Report under the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part II and elsewhere, and in other reports we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.
While forward-looking statements are based on reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.
The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP.
In the course of operating our business, we routinely make decisions as to the timing of the payment of invoices, the collection of receivables, the manufacturing and shipment of products, the fulfillment of orders, the purchase of supplies, and the building of inventory and spare parts, among other matters.
In making these decisions, we consider various factors, including contractual obligations, customer satisfaction, competition, internal and external financial targets and expectations, and financial planning objectives.
