The information required by this item is included in Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
•we have diverted, and will continue to divert, significant management and other internal resources towards the completion of the Merger.
Regulatory and governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of the required regulatory clearances and approvals described above.
Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful.
The joint venture entity, SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh"), is controlled by SKHS.
We contributed our NAND flash memory business to the joint venture.
Upon launch, SkyHigh entered into a wafer supply agreement with SKH, and back-end manufacturing and transition services agreements with Cypress.
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.
Consequently, we recognized an impairment charge of $51.2 million related to our investment in Enovix, reducing the carrying value of such investment on our books to zero.
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca") was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to $65.1 million (the estimated fair value of our investment as of the end of fiscal 2018).
•During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we determined that our investment in Deca had become further impaired due to a significant reduction in orders from Deca's key customers, and based on other objective indicators of enterprise value.
Consequently, we recognized an additional impairment charge of $29.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to $28.6 million (the estimated fair value of our investment as of June 30, 2019).
•any delays or failure to complete product or intellectual property development milestones—similar to those previously experienced by Deca in fiscal 2018.
As of September 29, 2019, we held 52.5% of Deca's outstanding voting shares and the carrying value of our investment in Deca was $25.6 million.
The exchange or conversion, as applicable, of the Spansion Notes and the 2022 Notes could dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders and negatively impact our financial position.
The exchange or conversion, as applicable, of some or all of Spansion's 2% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2020 (the "Spansion Notes") or our 4.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 (the "2022 Notes") could dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders and negatively impact our financial position.
The Spansion Notes and the 2022 Notes are each exchangeable or convertible, as applicable, into shares of the Company’s common stock at the election of the holders of such series of notes upon the occurrence of certain conditions specified in the indenture governing such series of notes, including during any fiscal quarter (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of the Company’s common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the exchange or conversion price of the applicable series of notes on each applicable trading day (the "sales price condition").
Any exchange or conversion, as applicable, of the Spansion Notes or 2022 Notes may be settled in cash, shares of the Company’s common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the Company’s common stock, in each case at our election.
The sales price condition for the Spansion Notes and the 2022 Notes was met on the last trading day of the Company’s fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2019 and, as a result, holders of the Spansion Notes and the 2022 Notes, as applicable, may, at their option, exchange or convert, as applicable, their notes during the Company’s fiscal quarter ending December 29, 2019.
Additionally, if we elect to settle all or any portion of such exchanges or conversions of Spansion Notes or 2022 Notes, as applicable, in cash, such payments of cash would reduce our available cash and negatively impact our liquidity.
Borrowings under our revolving credit facility (our "Revolving Credit Facility") may, at our option, bear interest at a floating rate based on the London Inter-bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR").
We also have entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements to manage our exposure to fluctuations in the LIBOR benchmark interest rate.
As described in Note 14 (Foreign Currency and Interest Rate Derivatives) to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I of this Quarterly Report, we pay the counterparties to these swap agreements a fixed rate in return for a LIBOR-based floating rate, which we use to fund payments under our Revolving Credit Facility.
The aggregate notional amount of these swap agreements is $300 million.
In July 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority (the "FCA"), which regulates LIBOR, announced that after December 31, 2021, it would no longer compel banks to submit the rates required to calculate LIBOR.
We cannot predict the effect of the FCA’s decision not to sustain LIBOR or, if changes ultimately are made to LIBOR, the effect those changes may have on the interest we pay on our Revolving Credit Facility and the payments we receive under our interest rate forward swap agreements.
swap agreements will continue to be correlated with the amounts we are required to pay under the Revolving Credit Facility or (b) transitions to new benchmarks will be concurrent across our various agreements, the failure of either or both of which could diminish the swaps’ effectiveness as hedging instruments.
Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall such exhibits be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise specifically stated in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
