Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, certificates of deposit, and corporate securities.
Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, term loans and exchangeable notes.
Interest on the exchangeable notes is fixed and interest on our term loans is at variable rates.
In December 2017, we entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements with two counterparties, starting from April 2018, to swap variable interest payments on our debt for fixed interest payments.
These agreements will expire in July 2021.
The objective of the swap was to effectively fix the interest rate at current levels without having to refinance the outstanding term loan, thereby avoiding the incurrence of transaction costs.
On January 3, 2018, we evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and have designated these swaps as hedging instruments.
A one hundred basis point change in the contractual interest rates would change our interest expense for the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan B by approximately $1.8 million annually.
We are exposed to certain risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates in Japanese yen and other foreign currencies.
•sales of our products to Japanese distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and Euros;
•some fixed asset purchases and sales are denominated in other foreign currencies.
We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our foreign exchange exposure on our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
We also hedge a percentage of our forecasted revenue denominated in Japanese yen with foreign currency forward contracts.
The objective of these contracts is to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements to our operating results on a short-term basis.
We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes.
To provide an assessment of the foreign currency exchange risk associated with our foreign currency exposures within our operations, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact that an adverse change in exchange rates would have on our financial statements.
Please see Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the hedge contracts.
