The information required by this item is included in Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful.
The joint venture entity, SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh") is controlled by SKHS.
We contributed our NAND flash memory business to the joint venture.
Upon launch, SkyHigh entered into a wafer supply agreement with SKH, and back-end manufacturing and transition services agreements with Cypress.
There can be no guarantee that such businesses will perform as initially expected, launch new products and solutions as initially expected, or gain or maintain market acceptance.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in another equity investee, Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca"), was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to its estimated fair value as of the end of fiscal 2018.
In particular, there is a substantial risk that the carrying value of our investment in Deca may become further impaired.
Deca’s current and future revenues are dependent on a small number of significant customers.
Deca may need to secure additional funding to support its growth and cash needs.
Failure to secure such funding, if needed, will impact its ability to continue as a going concern.
Deca's management is currently working with its significant customers to secure their long-term commitment to use Deca's technology given the current downturn in the semiconductor industry, and is in the process of evaluating certain alternative strategic options.
As of March 31, 2019, the carrying value of our investment in Deca was $61.6 million.
None.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
