Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, Term Loans and Exchangeable Notes. Interest on the Exchangeable Notes is fixed and interest on 
In December 2017, we entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements with two counterparties, starting from April 2018, to swap variable interest payments on our debt for fixed interest payments. These agreements will expire in July 2021. The objective of the swap was to effectively fix the interest rate at current levels without having to refinance the outstanding term loan, thereby avoiding the incurrence of transaction costs. The interest rate on the variable debt will continue to float until it becomes fixed in April 2018. On January 3, 2018, we evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and have designated these swaps as hedging instruments. Upon designation as hedge instruments, future changes in fair value of these swaps will be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss.
A one hundred basis point change in the contractual interest rates would change our interest expense for the Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan by approximately $2.7 million annually.
•sales of our products to Japanese distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and Euros;
•some fixed asset purchases and sales are denominated in other foreign currencies.
Consequently, movements in exchange rates could cause our revenues and our expenses to fluctuate, affecting our profitability and cash flows. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our foreign exchange exposure on our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. We also hedge a percentage of our forecasted revenue denominated in Japanese yen with foreign currency forward contracts. The objective of these contracts is to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements to our operating results on a short-term basis. We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes.
We analyzed our foreign currency exposure, including our hedging strategies, to identify assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies. For those assets and liabilities, we evaluated the effects of a 10% shift in exchange rates between those currencies and the U.S. dollar. We have determined that there would be an immaterial effect on our results of operations from such a shift. Please see Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the contracts.
