fls.txt



item1.txt
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and $2.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively, during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Most of these transactions or balances are denominated in Euros, British Pounds and a variety of Asian currencies.
The Company enters into foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to currency fluctuations.
The forward contract arrangements that the Company enters into typically mature in three months or less.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The Company has established an implementation team to analyze its current portfolio of customer contracts and determine the impact of adopting the guidance.
The implementation team is also responsible for evaluating and designing the necessary changes to the Company’s business processes, policies, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new guidance.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates would result in a $0.5 million change in interest expense incurred during the six months ended March 31, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
 We are subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.


