fls.txt
The Company evaluated all positive and negative evidence in concluding it was appropriate to release the majority of the valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during fiscal year 2018.


item1.txt
 In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group), (the “Disposition”).
The Company determined that the cryogenics business met the “held for sale” criteria and the “discontinued operations” criteria in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, Presentation of Financial Statements, (“FASB ASC 205”) as of December 31, 2018.
The discussion in the notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted, relate solely to the Company's continuing operations.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.1 million and $2.0 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
 As of December 31, 2018, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
 In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, Disclosure Framework — Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, which amends ASC 715 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The guidance also specifies the accounting for certain costs to obtain and fulfill a contract, as codified in ASC 340-40 Accounting for Other Assets and Deferred Costs (“ASC 340-40”).
 The Company adopted this standard effective October 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method and has only applied this method to contracts that were not completed as of the effective date and all new contracts initiated on or after the effective date.
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts have not been restated and continue to be reported in accordance with the governing revenue recognition standards applicable to that period.
 A portion of the adjustment related to the acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment results from the change in the revenue recognition rules.
The change impacted the Company’s semiconductor contamination control solutions revenue stream as the Company is now permitted to recognize revenue in an amount equivalent to the transfer of control that has occurred.


item3.txt
Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in the short-term LIBOR rate, the federal funds effective rate and the prime rate.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings or in certain instances provide reasonable ranges of potential losses.


