fls.txt
The Company evaluated all positive and negative evidence in concluding it was appropriate to release the majority of the valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during fiscal year 2018.


item1.txt
 The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
 In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group), (the “Disposition”).
The Company determined that the cryogenics business met the “held for sale” criteria and the “discontinued operations” criteria in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, Presentation of Financial Statements, (“FASB ASC 205”) as of September 30, 2018.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.6 million and $0.5 million, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 and $0.6 million and $2.5 million, respectively, during the six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
The ASU clarifies that companies are exempt from making the interim period transition disclosures required by ASC 250, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, for the period in which a change in accounting principle is made as a result of adopting ASC 842.
This interim period disclosure exemption is consistent with ASC 842, which already allowed companies to exclude the annual effect of the accounting change on income from continuing operations, net income and per-share amounts for periods post-adoption.
 In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, Disclosure Framework — Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, which amends ASC 715 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
 In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326), which amends ASC 326 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to credit losses of financial instruments.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model which applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
 In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition, ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The guidance also specifies the accounting for certain costs to obtain and fulfill a contract, as codified in ASC 340-40 Accounting for Other Assets and Deferred Costs (“ASC 340-40”).


item3.txt
At March 31, 2019, the outstanding term loans principal balance was $543.5 million, net of unamortized deferred financing costs of $6.1 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt



