fls.txt
The Company evaluated all positive and negative evidence in concluding it was appropriate to release the majority of the valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during fiscal year 2018.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group), (the “Disposition”).
The Company determined that the semiconductor cryogenics business met the “held for sale” criteria and the “discontinued operations” criteria in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, Presentation of Financial Statements, (“FASB ASC 205”) as of September 30, 2018.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Operations, and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements were restated for all periods presented to reflect the discontinuation of the semiconductor cryogenics business, in accordance with FASB ASC 205.
The discussion in the notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted, relate solely to the Company's continuing operations.
On July 1, 2019, the Company completed the Disposition for $675.0 million, subject to adjustments for working capital and other items.
As part of this amendment, liabilities assumed by the purchaser were revised to include accounts payable related to the semiconductor cryogenics business.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company has revised its accounts payable balance on a continuing operations basis to exclude accounts payable related to the semiconductor cryogenics business and revised its current liabilities held for sale balance to include accounts payable related to the semiconductor cryogenics business on its Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Accounts payable and total liabilities of the discontinued operation have also been revised in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” below.
As of September 30, 2018, the accounts payable balance related to the semiconductor cryogenics business was $11.1 million.
The Company will also revise these balances in previously reported historical periods in the event those periods are presented in future filings.
Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they occur and become known.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
ASU 2019-05 amends ASU 2016-13 to allow companies to irrevocably elect, upon adoption of ASU 2016-13, the fair value option on financial instruments that were previously recorded at amortized cost and are within the scope of ASC 326-20 if the instruments are eligible for the fair value option under ASC 825-10.
In April 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-04, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments, which makes targeted changes to standards on credit losses, hedging, and recognizing and measuring financial instruments to clarify them and address implementation issues.


item3.txt
Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in the short-term LIBOR rate, the federal funds effective rate and the prime rate.


item4.txt



part2.txt



