fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2017 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.6 million and $0.7 million, respectively, during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and $3.1 million and $1.6 million, respectively, during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
 In March 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2018-02, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
 The Company has established an implementation team to assist with its assessment of the impact of the new revenue guidance on its operations, consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The implementation team is also responsible for evaluating and designing the necessary changes to the Company’s business processes, policies, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new guidance.
Based on the procedures performed to date, the Company expects changes to the consolidated balance sheet related to accounts receivable, contract assets, and contract liabilities, as well as, significant changes to the Company’s disclosures, to comply with the new disclosure requirements under ASC 606.


item3.txt
A hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates would result in a $1.5 million change in interest expense incurred during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
 We are subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.


