fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
On November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“Hewlett Packard Enterprise”), Hewlett-Packard Company’s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the “Separation”).
In connection with the Separation, Hewlett-Packard Company changed its name to HP Inc. (“HP”) and entered into a separation and distribution agreement as well as various other agreements with Hewlett Packard Enterprise that provide a framework for the relationships between the parties, including among others a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a transition service agreement, a real estate matters agreement, a master commercial agreement and an information technology service agreement.
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 14, 2017.
The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2017 was derived from audited financial statements.
HP reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for derivatives and hedging.
In November 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which addresses the presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
HP is required to adopt the guidance retrospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting for Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.
In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses.
Further, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses limited to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost.
HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.


item2.txt
An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.
•In Printing, our strategic focus is on business printing, a shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
Business printing includes delivering solutions to SMBs and enterprise customers, such as multi-function and PageWide printers, including our JetIntelligence lineup of LaserJet printers.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Managed Print Services and Instant Ink, which presents strong after-market supplies opportunities.
We plan to continue to focus on shifting the mix in the installed base to higher value units and expanding our innovative Ink, Laser, Graphics and 3D printing programs.
We also need to continue to optimize our sales coverage models, align our sales incentives with our strategic goals, improve channel execution, strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, and develop and capitalize on market opportunities.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion and for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax expense of $379 million, which are considered provisional estimates under the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No.
118, which addresses how a company recognizes provisional estimates when a company does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the effect of the changes in the TCJA.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to the $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by a $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and a $1.2 billion net expense for the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate and for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to realization on U.S. deferred taxes that are expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.


