fls.txt



item1.txt
On November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“Hewlett Packard Enterprise”), Hewlett-Packard Company’s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the “Separation”).
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 14, 2017.
The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2017 was derived from audited financial statements.
The Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements include the accounts of HP and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which HP has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary.
HP reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
See Note 2, “Segment Information”, for a further discussion of HP’s segment and business unit realignments.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for derivatives and hedging.
In November 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which addresses the presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
HP is required to adopt the guidance retrospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting for Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.
In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses.
Further, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses limited to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than twelve months.
HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified retrospective approach.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
The amendments (Topic 606) are based on the principle that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.


item2.txt
An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.
We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.
•In Printing, our strategic focus is on business printing, a shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
We plan to continue to focus on shifting the mix in the installed base to higher value units and expanding our innovative Ink, Laser, Graphics and 3D printing programs.
Our focus is on placing higher value printer units which offer strong annuity of toner and ink, the design and deployment of A3 products and solutions, accelerating growth in Graphic solutions and 3D printing.
Our primary competitors are exerting competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.
We obtained a number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations.
The impact of these and other global macroeconomic challenges on our business cannot be known at this time.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.


