The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
On November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company completed the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“Hewlett Packard Enterprise”), Hewlett-Packard Company’s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the “Separation”).
In connection with the Separation, Hewlett-Packard Company changed its name to HP Inc. (“HP”) and entered into a separation and distribution agreement as well as various other agreements with Hewlett Packard Enterprise that provide a framework for the relationships between the parties, including among others a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a transition service agreement, a real estate matters agreement, a master commercial agreement and an information technology service agreement.
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 14, 2017.
The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2017 was derived from audited financial statements.
HP reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
See Note 2, “Segment Information”, for a further discussion of HP’s segment and business unit realignments.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for derivatives and hedging.
In November 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which addresses the presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
HP is required to adopt the guidance retrospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.
•In Printing, our strategic focus is on business printing, a shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
We plan to continue to focus on shifting the mix in the installed base to higher value units and expanding our innovative Ink, Laser, Graphics and 3D printing programs.
We also need to continue to optimize our sales coverage models, align our sales incentives with our strategic goals, improve channel execution, strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, and develop and capitalize on market opportunities.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion.
In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of our U.S. deferred tax assets that are expected to be realized at a lower rate, which are considered provisional estimates under the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No.Item 1.