fls.txt



item1.txt
This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 13, 2018.
The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2018 was derived from audited financial statements.
Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP implemented an organizational change to align its business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
In connection with the Separation, HP entered into a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and various other agreements with Hewlett Packard Enterprise that provide a framework for the relationships between the parties.
In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance, which addresses the improvement of the presentation of net periodic pension and net periodic post-retirement benefit cost.
The guidance requires entities to present the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost in the same income statement line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period.
The amendments in this guidance are to be applied retrospectively for presentation in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings.
The adoption of this guidance has no impact on net earnings.
The reclassification resulted in an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses and a reduction in interest and other, net of $58 million and $118 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively.
In November 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which addresses the presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
The implementation of this guidance did not have any impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting for Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.
The implementation of this guidance did not have any impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The implementation of this guidance did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP adopted the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective method applied to contracts that were not completed as of November 1, 2018.
HP recognized the net impact of adoption as an increase to accumulated deficit by $212 million, net of tax on November 1, 2018.


item2.txt
An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.
We have increased our focus on Device as a Service as the market begins to shift to contractual solutions.
•In Printing, our strategic growth focus is on shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
Our primary competitors are exerting competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.
To address these challenges, we continue to pursue innovation with a view towards developing new products and services aligned with generating market demand and meeting the needs of our customers and partners.
We also continue to work on optimizing our sales coverage models, align our sales incentives with our strategic goals, improve channel execution, strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, and develop and capitalize on market opportunities.
We recognize revenue depicting the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we are expected to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Other than the risk factors set forth below, there have been no material changes in the risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31,2018 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2019.
Our business faces many challenges we must address.
One set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, which may include declines in the markets in which we operate.
A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape.


