All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Improvements,” that allowed for a cumulative effect adjustment in the period of adoption.
Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840).
Adoption of ASC 842 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 million and $54.3 million, respectively.
Operating lease liabilities were calculated using the discount rate on January 1, 2019.
The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the consolidated statement of operations, cash flows, or earnings per share.
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset.
As Teradyne is typically unable to determine the implicit rate, Teradyne uses an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date.
Lemsys strengthens Teradyne’s position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q which are not historical facts, so called “forward-looking statements,” are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
See also Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company.