fls.txt



item1.txt
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
In accordance with ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation.
Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Typically acceptance of Teradyne’s products and services is a formality as Teradyne delivers similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications.
For the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $3.6 million and $7.9 million, respectively, in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and timing of revenue recognition.
not obligate Teradyne to provide a separate service to the customer and it cannot be purchased separately.
Teradyne’s hardware is recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control to the customer.
Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases.
Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty.
These services include telephone support, bug fixes, and when-and-if available upgrades.


item2.txt
See also Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company.
The total purchase price for MiR was approximately $197 million, which included cash paid of approximately $146 million and $51 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2020.
MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.
In accordance with ASC 606, we recognize revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Our determination of revenue is dependent upon a five step process outlined below.
We periodically enter into contracts with its customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with extended warranty obligations.
We use standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.


item3.txt
In addition to market risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have an equity price risk related to the fair value of our convertible senior unsecured notes issued in December 2016.


item4.txt



part2.txt
On July 6, 2018, the United States Trade Representative imposed a 25% tariff on a list of products, including certain Teradyne products that are made in China and imported into the United States.


