fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018. right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for operating leases with terms longer than twelve months.
Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840).
resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1 Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset.
As Teradyne is typically unable to determine the implicit rate, Teradyne uses an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date.
one-step impairment test will be applied to goodwill at all reporting units, even those with zero or negative carrying amounts.
Entities will be required to disclose the amount of goodwill at reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts.
The revised guidance will be applied prospectively, and is effective in 2020.
Lemsys strengthens Teradyne’s position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.
The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020.
MiR’s products will help expand the Industrial Automation segment, which is a key component of Teradyne’s growth strategy.
The allocation of the total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
Pro forma results for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $2.3 million and $2.9 million, respectively, of acquisition related costs, and $0.4 million of non-recurring expense related to fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.


item2.txt
We are a leading global supplier of automation equipment for test and industrial applications.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
On April 25, 2018, we acquired Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR and Energid are included in our Industrial Automation segment.
Lemsys strengthens our position in the electrification trends of vehicles, solar, wind, and industrial applications.
Lemsys is included in our Semiconductor Test segment.
RealWear, a private company, develops and sells advanced wearable technology including industrial, hands-free, head-mounted augmented reality devices that make the workplace safer and more productive.
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, except as noted below.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.
We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities.


