fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The information as of June 30, 2017 was derived from the Company’s audited Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2017.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory.
Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current period’s presentation.
The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 4, 2017.
Fiscal year 2018 will be comprised of 52 weeks and will end on June 29, 2018.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01 (ASC Subtopic 825-10), Financial Instruments—Overall Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
The amendments in this ASU require entities to measure all investments in equity securities at fair value with changes recognized through net income.
The Company expects to elect the measurement alternative for measurement of equity investments, defined as cost, less impairments, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment in the same issuer (the “Price Changes”) until the equity investments’ fair value becomes readily determinable.
The amount of the impact to equity investments will depend on any Price Changes observed after adoption in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
Upon adoption, excess tax benefits or deficiencies from share-based award activity are reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of operations as a component of the provision for income taxes, whereas they previously were recognized in the Shareholder’s equity in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.


item2.txt
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2017, September 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, referred to herein as the “December 2017 quarter,” the “September 2017 quarter,” and the “December 2016 quarter,” respectively.
References to “$” are to United States dollars.
An analysis of our financial results comparing the December 2017 quarter to the September 2017 quarter and the December 2016 quarter.
Overview of contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments outstanding as of December 29, 2017.
We are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
In addition to HDDs, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHD”) and storage subsystems.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory.


item3.txt
The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of December 29, 2017.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Financial Statements—Note 14.


