fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory.
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (formerly referred to as the “cloud systems and solutions”) portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 3, 2018.
Fiscal year 2019, which ends on June 28, 2019, and fiscal year 2018, which ended on June 29, 2018, are both comprised of 52 weeks.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of these ASUs on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15 (ASC Subtopic 350-40), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software - Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.
This ASU aligns the accounting for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the accounting for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
The impact of applying the new accounting standard on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and six months ended December 28, 2018 was not material.


item2.txt
The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended December 28, 2018, September 28, 2018 and December 29, 2017, referred to herein as the “December 2018 quarter,” the “September 2018 quarter,” and the “December 2017 quarter,” respectively.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries.
References to “$” are to United States dollars.
Our Company.
Overview of the December 2018 quarter.
An analysis of our financial results comparing the December 2018 quarter to the September 2018 quarter and the December 2017 quarter.
Overview of contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments outstanding as of December 28, 2018.
Critical Accounting Policies.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio including investment in debt security in Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”, formerly known as “K.K.
The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of December 28, 2018.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.


item4.txt
Effective February 5, 2019, Gianluca Romano, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will also serve as principal accounting officer replacing Geraldine Hottier-Fayon who had been serving as the Company’s interim principal accounting officer.


part2.txt
Financial Statements - Note 14.


