fls.txt
Any Forward-Looking Statement made by the Company is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.


item1.txt
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2019, except as discussed in “Recently Adopted Accounting Standards” below.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
Recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses will depend on classification as a finance or operating lease.
Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance.
The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements.
In addition, we elected the transition package of three practical expedients permitted within the standard, which eliminates the requirements to reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
Further, we elected a short-term lease exception policy, permitting us to not apply the recognition requirements of this standard to short-term leases (i.e. leases with terms of 12 months or less) and an accounting policy to account for lease and non-lease components as a single component for certain classes of assets.
The standard did not materially affect the Company’s consolidated net earnings or have any impact on cash flows.
See Note 12, Leases, for Topic 842 disclosures in connection with the adoption of ASU 2016-02.
The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations that have not been satisfied as of June 30, 2019 related to contracts that exceed one year in duration amounted to $14.3 million, with expected contract expiration dates that range from 2020 - 2025.
Level 3 – Unobservable inputs about which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions.
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our available-for-sale securities primarily consisted of investments held in a rabbi trust which are intended to fund the Company’s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”) obligations.


item2.txt
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries.
Bel’s portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
·   Backlog – Our backlog of orders amounted to $150.9 million at June 30, 2019, a decline of $20.3 million, or 12%, from December 31, 2018.
Since year-end, we saw an 8% increase in the backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products, primarily driven by additional orders from our military customers.
The backlog of orders for our Power Solutions and Protection products declined by 17% and backlog for our Magnetic Solutions products was down 29% from year-end 2018 levels.
Order volumes were lower in the first half of 2019 as a result of slowdowns in certain markets coupled with customers working down heighted inventory levels which had been built up in response to new product launches and the tariffs that went into effect in 2018 and 2019.
·   Pricing and Availability of Materials – While material cost and availability for certain components have started to ease, the higher raw material costs which were in place during 2018, particularly related to resistors, capacitors and mosfets, are still running through our supply chain as we ship the balance of our inventory on hand from 2018.
As a result, the Company’s material costs as a percentage of sales increased to 43.8% during the first half of 2019 from 41.4% during the first half of 2018.


item3.txt
This offset the foreign exchange loss recognized in the first half of 2019 of $0.1 million on translation of local currency balance sheet accounts to the U.S. Dollar in consolidation, resulting from foreign currency fluctuations since December 31, 2018.


part2.txt
The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 13 of the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, under “Legal Proceedings”, as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


