Any Forward-Looking Statement made by the Company is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made.GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted from these condensed consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations, including the interim reporting requirements, of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, except as discussed in “Recently Adopted Accounting Standards” below.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
Recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses will depend on classification as a finance or operating lease.
Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance.
The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements.
In connection with the adoption, we elected to utilize the Comparatives Under 840 Option whereby the Company will continue to present prior period financial statements and disclosures under ASC 840.
In addition, we elected the transition package of three practical expedients permitted within the standard, which eliminates the requirements to reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
Further, we elected a short-term lease exception policy, permitting us to not apply the recognition requirements of this standard to short-term leases (i.e. leases with terms of 12 months or less) and an accounting policy to account for lease and non-lease components as a single component for certain classes of assets.
The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations that have not been satisfied as of September 30, 2019 related to contracts that exceed one year in duration amounted to $15.7 million, with expected contract expiration dates that range from 2020 - 2025.All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding.
We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits.
These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries.
Bel’s portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets.
Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.Item 1.