In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim consolidated financial statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
For the revenue streams assessed, the Company does not anticipate a material impact in the timing or amount of revenue recognized.
Based on this ongoing assessment, the Company intends to adopt the standard on a modified retrospective basis on April 2, 2018, the first day of fiscal 2019.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The new standard will change the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement.
The impact to the Company's results of operations related to this provision in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was an increase in the provision for income taxes of $0.04 million, and a 0.4% higher effective tax rate than if the standard had not been adopted.This commentary should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 26, 2017.
We experienced third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 4.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%.
For the retail segment, revenue declined due, in part, to the timing of the iPhone launch.
Revenue decreased in our network systems; our installation, test and maintenance; and our mobile device accessories categories by 4.8%, 3.9% and 7.4%, respectively, for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the same quarter last year.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 450 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased 0.6% compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
The growth in our commercial segment was more than offset by a decline in our retail segment of 7.9%, due, in part, to the timing of the iPhone launch.
Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased by 1.2% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 to 20.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.Item 1.