fls.txt
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.


item1.txt
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company adopted this standard on the first day of the 2020 fiscal year, using a modified retrospective approach.
Therefore, the Company recorded a right-of-use asset of $4,398,300 and lease liabilities of $4,420,800 for operating leases as of June 30, 2019.
The new standard changes the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement.
Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, included herein.
On June 4, 2019, the Board of Directors approved the 2019 Stock and Incentive Plan of the Company, subject to shareholder approval, which occurred at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on July 25, 2019.
Effective upon shareholder approval of the 2019 Stock and Incentive Plan, no additional awards may be granted under the 1994 Plan, although awards outstanding under the 1994 Plan remain outstanding and governed by its terms.
metrics are met to a sufficient extent, the shares earned at the end of fiscal 2020 on the basis of that performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on or about May 15, 2020 and continuing on the same date in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023, provided that the respective employee remains employed by or associated with the Company on each such date.
Pursuant to the typical PSU award agreement, however, performance metrics are deemed met upon the occurrence of a change in control, and shares earned are issued earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control, or death or disability of the employee, or upon termination of the employee’s employment without cause or by the employee for good reason, as those terms are defined in the applicable PSU award agreement.


item2.txt
Our first quarter fiscal 2020 revenue decreased by 13.4% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
First quarter fiscal 2020 revenue in the commercial segment and retail segment decreased 6.8% and 28.8%, respectively, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2019.
The decline in our commercial segment revenue was driven by a decrease in our public carrier market due to the project-oriented nature of this business.
Several large customers either adjusted their forecasts or pushed out their product requirements from the first fiscal quarter into the remainder of the year.
Among our product categories, revenue decreased in our base station infrastructure, network systems, installation, test and maintenance, and mobile device accessories categories by 7.1%, 1.0%, 18.9% and 28.7%, respectively, for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, as compared to the same quarter last year.
Our first quarter fiscal year 2020 gross profit decreased by 17.7%, compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The decrease in gross profit was primarily the result of the decrease in revenue discussed above.
margin for the first quarter fiscal year 2020 and fiscal year 2019 was 19.3% and 20.3%, respectively.
Selling, General and Administrative expenses for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 were down 3.0% compared to the first quarter fiscal year 2019.
In addition, the agreements or arrangements on which our customer and vendor relationships are based are typically of limited duration, typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale and are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise relatively short notice.
Barriers to entry for distributors are relatively low, particularly in the mobile devices and accessories market, and the risk of new competitors entering the marketplace is high.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 400 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


