fls.txt
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.


item1.txt
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company has identified the full population of leases and does not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The standard will be adopted on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.
The company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet.
The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the inventory line item of the balance sheet.
The return asset value is initially measured at the former carrying amount in inventory, less any expected costs to recover the goods.
These not-yet-earned PSUs have a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019), and assuming the performance metrics are met to a sufficient extent, any shares earned at the end of fiscal 2019 will vest 25% and be issued ratably on or about each of May 1 of 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, provided that the respective employees remain employed by the Company on each such date.
Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.


item2.txt
Our second quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 9.3% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
We experienced second quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 11.0% and an increase in revenue in the retail segment of 5.9%, as compared to the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
For the retail segment, year over year, revenue increased due, in part, to successful execution of the iPhone XS and the XS Max launches as well as growth in Ventev mobile device accessory sales.
Revenue decreased in our network systems category by 22.7%, for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the same quarter last year.
Our second quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 4.9%, compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above.
Selling, General and Administrative expenses for the second quarter fiscal year 2019 were up 11% compared to the second quarter fiscal year 2018.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income decreased by 32.9% and diluted earnings per share decreased by 33.3% compared to the prior-year quarter.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 9.3% compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to 19.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Within our retail market, gross profit decreased by 0.4% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 2018, due to higher freight costs, particularly air freight from foreign vendors.
Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.


