In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No.
The Company adopted this standard on the first day of the 2020 fiscal year, using a modified retrospective approach.
This standard resulted in the Company recording a right-of-use asset and lease liability for all leases, but otherwise the standard did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No.
The new standard changes the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement.We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 400 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
Revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased 10.6% compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The decline in the retail segment was driven by significantly lower revenues from one of our more significant retail customers following its acquisition during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, change in business model and subsequent transition of its business elsewhere, as well as ongoing overall market softness.
Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased by 16.2% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Overall gross profit margin decreased from 19.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to 18.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $3.7 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 18.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, to 18.2% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation.Controls and Procedures.Item 1.