The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 3, 2018.
The Company records estimated variable consideration at the time of revenue recognition as a reduction to net revenue.
For OEM sales, rebates are typically established by estimating the most likely amount of consideration expected to be received based on an OEM customer’s volume of purchases from Seagate or other agreed upon rebate programs.
The Company elected a practical expedient to expense sales commissions when the commissions are incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less.
In February 2016 and July 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, and Leases, ASU 2018-11, Leases (ASC Topic 842), Target improvements, respectively.
These ASUs amend a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of these ASUs on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15 (ASC Subtopic 350-40), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software - Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.
This ASU aligns the accounting for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the accounting for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09 (ASC Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and FASB also issued certain interpretive clarifications on this new guidance which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes the revenue recognition guidance under ASC 605.The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended September 28, 2018, June 29, 2018 and September 29, 2017, referred to herein as the “September 2018 quarter,” the “June 2018 quarter,” and the “September 2017 quarter,” respectively.
cyber-attacks or other data breaches that disrupt the Company’s operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information and cause reputational harm, and the cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities associated with the Company’s infrastructure updates to its information technology systems.
An analysis of our financial results comparing the September 2018 quarter to the June 2018 quarter and the September 2017 quarter.
An analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discussion of our financial condition including the credit quality of our investment portfolio and potential sources of liquidity.Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash investment portfolio including investment in debt security in Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”, formerly known as “K.K.
As of September 28, 2018, we had no impairment for our investment in debt security and we had no available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1.