The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 47% of consolidated net revenues for both the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 11% and 10% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017. 
Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $119 million and $190 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 
Blizzard is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the PC platform. Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products. Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content, along with Activision’s Destiny 2 PC content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content. As noted above, Blizzard also includes the activities of our MLG business, which is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content. 
· subscriptions to players in our World of Warcraft franchise, which provide continual access to the game content. 
· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. 
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, interest expense was $40 million and $35 million, respectively; amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $2 million and $7 million, respectively; and commitment fees for the Revolver were not material. 
Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform. Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets, and sells products based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny. 
As part of the continued implementation of our esports strategy, we instituted changes to our internal organization and reporting structure during 2017 such that the Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business operates as a division of Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (“Blizzard”). Commencing with the second quarter of 2017, MLG, which was previously a separate operating segment, became a component of the Blizzard operating segment. MLG is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League™, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content. 
Revenues attributable to the initial purchase of World of Warcraft software by our customers and related sales of expansion packs are classified as “Product sales,” whereas revenues attributable to subscriptions and other in-game revenues are classified as “Subscription, licensing, and other revenues.” 
For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, pre-tax net gains associated with these forward contracts were recorded in “General and administrative expenses” and were not material. The increase in King’s operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to the higher revenues, as discussed above. The increase was partially offset by higher software development costs. 
· operating margin was 30.3%, as compared with 28.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2017; 
The increase in King’s net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher revenues from the Candy Crush franchise’s increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features. 
The increase in net revenues from mobile and ancillary for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher revenues from the Candy Crush franchise’s increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features. 
The decrease in interest and other expense (income), net, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher interest income of $11 million from our cash and cash equivalents as compared to the prior period. 
· capital expenditures of $31 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $21 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. 
Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018, were comparable to the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to a $39 million increase in marketing spending and personnel costs, primarily associated with the Candy Crush franchise and the Overwatch League, which started its inaugural regular season in January 2018, partially offset by marketing for the Bubble Witch franchise, as Bubble Witch 3 Saga was released during the first quarter of 2017, with no comparable release in 2018. The increase was partially offset by a $33 million decrease in amortization associated with the customer base intangible asset acquired in the acquisition of King, as the asset was fully amortized during the period. 
The decrease in net revenues in the Asia Pacific region for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016. The decrease was partially offset by higher revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, driven by the release of Destiny 2 in September 2017, with no comparable release in 2016. The Company has determined that, based on the composition of our investment portfolio as of March 31, 2018, there was no material interest rate risk exposure to the Company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity as of that date. 