The income tax expense of $163 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, reflects an effective tax rate of 17%, which is higher than the effective tax rate of 7% for the six months ended June 30, 2018. The increase is primarily due to the factors discussed above for the three months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $48 million and $103 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $77 million and $196 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, inventory reserves were $18 million and $22 million, respectively.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, interest expense was $21 million and $43 million, respectively, and amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $1 million and $2 million, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, interest expense was $41 million and $80 million, respectively, and amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $2 million and $4 million, respectively.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 49% and 49% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 9% and 10% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for either the three months ended June 30, 2019 or 2018.
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform. Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets, and sells products primarily based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. Activision’s key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms.Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices. We also operate esports leagues and events and create film and television content based on our intellectual property. The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A, and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”), is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform. Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets, and sells products primarily based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. Activision’s key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms.
•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, Activision released CrashTM Team Racing Nitro-Fueled and Blizzard released the latest expansion to Hearthstone—Rise of ShadowsTM.
The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
Q2 2019 vs. Q2 2018
The decrease was partially offset by net bookings from Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled, which was released in June 2019.
YTD Q2 2019 vs. YTD Q2 2018
We monitor monthly active users (“MAUs”) as a key measure of the overall size of our user base. MAUs are the number of individuals who accessed a particular game in a given month. We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period. An individual who accesses two of our games would be counted as two users. In addition, due to technical limitations, for Activision and King, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users. For Blizzard, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user.
Average MAUs decreased by 18 million, or 5%, for the three months ended June 30, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily driven by a decrease in average MAUs for King and Activision. The decrease in King’s average MAUs is primarily due to decreases from the Candy Crush franchise. The decrease in Activision’s average MAUs is primarily due to decreases from the Call of Duty franchise.Item 1. Legal Proceedings