fls.txt



item1.txt
In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2015-17, “Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.” This ASU amends existing guidance to require that deferred income tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a classified balance sheet, and eliminates the prior guidance which required an entity to separate deferred tax assets and liabilities into a current amount and a non-current amount in a classified balance sheet.
The implementation resulted in a net reduction of prepaid expense and other current assets of $49.7 million, accrued expense and other current liabilities of $5.3 million, and other long-term liabilities of $39.4 million; and an increase in other assets of $5.0 million in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and had no impact on cash provided by or used in operations for any period presented.
As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a $40.1 million cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings for the recognition of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits for all years prior to the adoption.
Accordingly, the provision for income taxes in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 included excess tax benefits of $11.0 million and $13.0 million, respectively, that decreased the income tax provision.
The FASB issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance in August 2015, March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016 within ASU 2015-14, ASU 2016-08, ASU 2016-10, ASU 2016-12 and ASU 2016-20, respectively.
The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The new standard defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than required under existing GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-1, “Financial Instruments – Overall – Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” The amendment changes the accounting for and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee.
The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and does not anticipate that implementation will have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-2, “Leases.” The amendment requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable.
In August 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” The amendment provides and clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows to eliminate diversity in practice.
In October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
In November 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows – Restricted Cash.” This standard update requires that restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included in cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown in the statement of cash flows.


item2.txt
We believe that demand for our products and services should increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers’ capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas and we continue to gain market share.
In the December 2017 quarter, revenue increased compared to the September 2017 quarter primarily as a result of increased investments from our memory customers.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the December 2017 quarter increased as compared to the September 2017 quarter primarily due to favorable customer and product mix.
Operating expenses in the December 2017 quarter increased compared to the September 2017 quarter mainly due to an increase in employee headcount and outside services.
Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances decreased to $6.0 billion as of December 24, 2017, compared to $6.4 billion as of September 24, 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over final reporting that are designed to comply with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.


part2.txt
The variability in our customers’ investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors, including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers’ ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices.
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.
Additionally, we have $1.25 billion available to us in revolving credit arrangements, with an option for us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, particularly in the United States, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt.
If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms.


