fls.txt



item1.txt
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” The amendment establishes the principles that lessees and lessors shall apply to report useful information to users of financial statements about the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a lease.
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2019 are presented under ASC 842, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under ASC 840.
The Company elected the package of practical expedients that allowed the Company not to reassess (i) whether any expired or existing contracts contain leases; (ii) the lease classification for any expired or existing leases; and (iii) initial direct lease costs for existing leases.
The Company adopted ASC 842 by recording operating right-of-use assets of $110.8 million, net of deferred rent liabilities of $3.0 million that were reclassified to operating right-of-use assets, and operating lease liabilities of $113.8 million.
The Company also recognized an adjustment of $3.0 million to retained earnings, net of tax; a reduction of $40.4 million to property and equipment, net; and a reduction of $43.8 million to finance leases ($42.3 million of which was previously recognized in long-term debt and finance lease obligations, less current portion and the remaining was previously recognized in current portion of long-term debt and finance lease obligations) related to its de-recognition of its previously recorded build-to-suit arrangements.
The adoption of the standard did not materially impact the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and had no impact on cash flows.
In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-18, "Collaborative Arrangements (Topic 808).” The amendment clarifies that certain transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement should be accounted for under Topic 606 when the counterparty is a customer for a good or service that is a distinct unit of account.
In April 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-04,”Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments”, that clarifies and improves areas of guidance related to the recently issued standards on credit losses (ASU 2016-13), hedging (ASU 2017-12), and recognition and measurement of financial instruments (ASU 2016-01).
The amendments of ASU 2017-12 were effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, and did not have a material impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Lam Research Corporation 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2015 Plan”), provides for the grant of non-qualified equity-based awards of the Company’s Common Stock to eligible employees and non-employee directors, including stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market-based performance RSUs (“market-based PRSUs”).
The Company recorded an income tax expense of $58.9 million for the three months ended September 29, 2019, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately 11.2%.
The Company is in various stages of examinations in connection with all of its tax audits worldwide, and it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be settled.
The Company’s mutual funds, which are related to the Company’s obligations under the deferred compensation plan, are classified as trading securities.
All of the Company’s other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.


item2.txt
We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events.
Despite recent semiconductor capital investment volatility, over the longer term, we believe that technology inflections in our industry, including 3D device scaling, multiple patterning, process flow, and advanced packaging chip integration will lead to an increase in our served addressable market for our products and services in deposition, etch, and clean.
In the September 2019 quarter, revenue decreased 8% compared to the June 2019 quarter, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment.
The decline in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter was mainly driven by customer and product mix.
The decrease in operating expenses in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter, was mainly driven by decreases in supplies and employee-related costs due to reduced working days in the September quarter.


item3.txt



item4.txt
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over final reporting that are designed to comply with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.


part2.txt
We accrue for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
The variability in our customers’ investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors, including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers’ ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices.
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
Especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes.
Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.
We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets identified in business combinations and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable.
Additionally, we have funding available to us under our $1.25 billion commercial paper program and our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which serves as a backstop to our commercial paper program.


