References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
The Investment Committee, a special sub-committee of the Board, was established in December 2017 upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders.
Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location.
The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses.
We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders.
We have received referrals with respect to and have performed due diligence assessments on multiple target companies and strategic opportunities in a variety of industries.
We work with several financial advisors and consultants on a non-exclusive basis and have been able to filter leads and referrals through diverse channels enabling us to review a wide range of opportunities in a variety of industries.
We made an initial advance of $5.0 million to the originator (the “Initial MCA Advance”), who in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication.
MCAs are contracts formed through a future receivables or receipts purchase and sale agreement, which stipulates the purchase price, or the amount advanced, and the specified amount, or the advance amount plus the factored receivable balance the Company will be repaid, on the face of the contract.
Generally, a specified amount will be withdrawn from the merchant’s bank account via daily or weekly ACH in order to pay down the merchant’s advance.
These are not consumer loan contracts, nor are they installment loan contracts to businesses for business use only.
In addition, there is no monthly minimum payment, nor is there a specific repayment schedule.
As of December 31, 2018, our revenue and receivables from MCAs were derived from a single MCA originator with which we funded, in syndication, more than 100 advances to merchants.
On October 2, 2018, we announced that the Company entered into a non-binding letter of intent (the “LOI”) to acquire an eighty percent (80%) interest in LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”), a privately held firm focused on the rapidly growing MCA sector of the finance industry that provides financing to small and medium-sized businesses.
The acquisition and deployment of any remaining MCA capital are subject to a number of conditions including the negotiation of definitive documentation and completion of CCUR’s due diligence investigation to CCUR’s satisfaction.
We expect that the proposed transaction with LuxeMark will provide the Company with two revenue streams generated through (i) the Company’s 80% interest and thereby its pro-rated portion of the fee income earned by LuxeMark on its syndicators’ invested capital and (ii) returns received on funds the Company makes available as a LuxeMark syndicator or lender.
The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by a peer group.
Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely.
Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process, and ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates.
Based on industry peer group historical performance, we recorded a $495 loss reserve during the current period.
Interest Income on Commercial Loans.
We created Recur Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we earned $0.2 million of interest income on seven mortgage and other commercial loans with a weighted average annualized yield of 11.0%.
We generated $0.2 million of income from MCAs during the period and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2019.
 ·a $1.8 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted stock awards in the prior year due to the change of control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;
 ·a $0.7 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the prior year period for the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business; and
 ·a $0.6 million decrease in severance related to our former CEO that was terminated in conjunction with the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
Provision for Credit Losses.
We established a provision for credit losses specifically for the MCAs that we began participating in during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group.
Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely.
Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
 ·accretion of discounts on purchased debt securities.
Dividend income.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Unrealized loss on equity securities, net.
Upon our adoption of ASU No.
2016-01 on July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net unrealized gain (loss) on investments.
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes.
We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the three months ended December 31, 2017 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, as further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Interest Income on Commercial Loans.
We created Recur Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
We generated $0.2 million of income from MCAs during the period and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2019.
 ·a $1.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense, primarily resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted stock awards in the prior year due to the change of control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;
 ·a $0.8 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the prior year period for the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business, and secondarily for annual incentive plan bonuses for operating results for the first half of the prior fiscal year;
 ·a $0.6 million decrease in severance primarily related to our former CEO that was terminated in conjunction with the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;
In the first quarter of our prior fiscal year we incurred fees attributable to the resignation of three of our independent directors that did not recur in the current year period.
Additionally, in the first quarter of the prior fiscal year we reduced certain recurring Board fees for our remaining Board members.
Provision for Credit Losses.
We established a provision for credit losses specifically for the MCAs that we began participating in during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group.
Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely.
Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
 ·accretion of discounts on purchased debt securities.
Dividend income.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018 we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the six months ended December 31, 2018.
Net realized gain on investments.
During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we sold our investment position in certain debt and equity securities for which we recognized a $0.2 million realized gain for the six months ended December 31, 2018.
Unrealized loss on equity securities, net.
Upon our adoption of ASU No.
2016-01 on July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments.
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes.
We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the six months ended December 31, 2017 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, which is further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
 ·potential liquidation of the Company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation.
We used $0.1 million and $3.6 million of cash for operating activities during the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Operating cash usage during the six months ended December 31, 2018 was primarily attributable to operating costs during the period exceeding cash generating income, as approximately $0.9 million of our income for the period was from non-cash accretion and payment-in-kind interest.
Operating cash flows during the six months ending December 31, 2017 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous period’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business in fiscal year 2017, inventory purchases and accrued compensation.
During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we funded $4.5 million of commercial loans, most of which were mortgage loans through our real estate operating subsidiary, Recur Holdings LLC.
Our mortgage loans typically require interest only payments until maturity or payoff.
We received $0.7 million of cash from principal payments during the six months ended December 31, 2018, as one mortgage loan was paid off during the period.
We received approximately $1.2 million of cash for principal payment on a commercial revolving credit facility from the borrower who regularly draws from and pays principal on the revolving credit facility to support its working capital needs.
We made an initial advance of $5 million to the originator, who in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication.
As advances have been collected from the merchants, we have used the collected funds to fund additional MCAs.
Through December 31, 2018, we have funded $5.9 million in MCAs and collected $0.9 million of merchant receivables as repayment for these advances.
Additionally, we provided a $2 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee.
In the prior fiscal year six-month period, we paid two quarterly cash dividends, each for $0.12 per share, and $2.3 million in aggregate.
On October 27, 2017, we announced the Board of Directors’ decision to suspend future dividends after the payment of the December 2017 quarterly dividend while the Board considers potential acquisition targets and alternative uses of our remaining assets.
We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $50.7 million at December 31, 2018, compared to working capital of $55.3 million at June 30, 2018.
At December 31, 2018, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures.
As of December 31, 2018, less than 1.0% of our cash was in foreign accounts and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months.
Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report.
We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2018.
Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 and in “Item 1A.
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
