References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
References to our Form 10-K made throughout this document refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 as filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business to the RT Purchaser.
The Real-Time business provided real-time Linux operating system variants, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
Prior to the sale, we sold our Real-Time business products to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
Having divested both our Real-Time and Content Delivery businesses, we are now in the process of evaluating opportunities intended to maximize the value of our remaining assets, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments, escrow funds receivable, and approximately $56 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards.
This process includes the evaluation of opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses intended to provide appreciation in value, thereby enhancing the Company’s liquidity, and potentially allowing us greater ability to utilize existing net operating loss carryforwards.
If the Investment Committee is unable to identify a suitable acquisition target that is appropriately valued, we may consider alternatives for returning capital to stockholders while we wind up our affairs.
Results of our Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 4 to the condensed consolidated financial statements).
During the third quarter of our fiscal 2018, we and Vecima finalized the calculation of net working capital of the Content Delivery business as of December 31, 2017.
We and Vecima agreed that the surplus net working capital transferred to Vecima under the CDN APA was $812 thousand, and as a result, we returned $658 thousand to Vecima.
We reduced our gain on the sale of the Content Delivery business reported during the period ended December 31, 2017 by the amount of the final post-closing working capital adjustment, so our third quarter return of excess working capital payment did not result in an additional third quarter adjustment to our gain on the transaction.
The closing of the sale of the Content Delivery business to Vecima resulted in a “change in control” under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan.
As a result, we have recognized the acceleration of the vesting and the lapse of restrictions on substantially all restricted stock granted under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan and payment of any associated accrued dividends in connection with the consummation of the sale of the Content Delivery business to Vecima.
On December 31, 2017 we entered into a Separation and Consulting Agreement and General Release of Claims with Derek Elder, whereby Mr. Elder’s role as president and CEO of the Company terminated and he ceased to be a member of our Board of Directors and all committees thereof, effective on December 31, 2017.
Mr. Elder’s separation from the Company did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies or practices.
In addition, as described more fully in Item 1, Section 12 herein, on December 31, 2017, an independent member of our Board of Directors, Robert Pons, tendered his resignation from the Board of Directors and all committees thereof.
Mr. Pons’ resignation from the Board of Directors did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies or practices.
On January 2, 2018, we changed our Company name to “CCUR Holdings, Inc.” and launched a new website located at www.ccurholdings.com.
Effective March 27, 2018, we transitioned to trading on the OTCQB Venture Market under the same “CCUR” ticker symbol that we previously traded under on the Nasdaq market.
In connection with Mr. Barr’s new interim role, he resigned from his memberships on the Audit, Compensation and Nominating committees.
In his capacity as CEO and President, Mr. Barr shall perform, on a consultant basis, the senior executive officer and managerial job duties customary to such position and other duties as designated by the Board of Directors.
As previously announced, the Company received a Nasdaq Staff Determination Letter (the “Staff Determination”) on January 4, 2018 stating that the Nasdaq Staff had determined that the Company was a “public shell” under applicable Nasdaq criteria and thus delisting of its stock was warranted.
The Company appealed the Staff Determination and obtained additional time through May 15, 2018 for continued listing, subject to its ability to satisfy the Nasdaq that it was not a “public shell” and that its continued listing was warranted.
On March 27, 2018, we announced that our stock would commence trading on the OTCQB Venture Market as of the open of business on March 27, 2018.
General and administrative expenses were $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, a decrease of $1.0 million, or 45.9%, from $2.2 million for the prior year period.
This decrease was primarily due to approximately $0.9 million in legal and accounting fees that we incurred in the third quarter of our prior year related to the transaction to sell our Real-Time business that was not consummated until the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year.
Additionally, our third quarter of fiscal 2018 share based compensation expense decreased by approximately $0.1 million relative to the same period in the prior year due to 1) the acceleration of restricted share vesting that occurred with the change of control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business as of December 31, 2017 and 2) the limited number of remaining share-based compensation participants following the sale of both our Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses.
Interest Income.
Interest income in both periods is comprised primarily of interest income on available-for-sale investments.
Loss from Continuing Operations.
Our loss from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $0.8 million, or $0.09 loss per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 of $2.2 million, or $0.24 loss per basic and diluted share.
We recorded $0.2 million and $0.1 million of income tax expense within our Discontinued Operations during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Interest Income.
Interest income in both periods is comprised primarily of interest income available-for-sale investments.
Loss from Continuing Operations.
Our loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 was $5.1 million, or $0.53 loss per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss for the nine months ended March 31, 2017 of $5.2 million, or $0.56 loss per basic and diluted share.
The period-over-period decrease in basic and diluted loss per share resulted from a period-over period increase in weighted average shares outstanding.
We recorded $0.8 million and $0.4 million of income tax expense within our Discontinued Operations during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
 ·potential liquidation of the company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation.
We used $7.6 million and generated $2.2 million of cash from operating activities during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Operating cash flows during the nine months ending March 31, 2018 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous year’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business, inventory purchases and accrued compensation, coupled with losses from continuing operations.
Operating cash flows during the nine months ended March 31, 2017 were primarily attributable to the collection of accounts receivable for sales shipped late in the prior year, offset by the current period net loss.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2018, we generated $28.3 million of cash from the sale of our Content Delivery business and $11.7 million of cash from the maturity of available-for-sale securities.
During the same period, we invested $18.6 million in available-for-sale investments.
Subsequent to the sale of our Content Delivery business, we broadened our investment portfolio from mostly short-term government securities and commercial paper to also include corporate debt and equity securities.
During the same period in the prior year, we invested $2.4 million in highly liquid commercial paper and U.S. Treasury bills with original maturities of more than 3 months but no more than 12 months.
On January 2, 2018, we purchased 41,566 shares from certain non-Section 16 employees whose shares vested due to the change in control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
The $239 thousand repurchase of shares at $5.76 per share was approved by the Board of Directors on a one-time basis to facilitate employees’ payment of payroll withholding taxes due upon vesting of the shares.
Shares were repurchased from employees only to the extent required to fund minimum required withholding taxes based on the closing price nearest to the December 31, 2017 vest date.
We paid two quarterly cash dividends, each for $0.12 per share, during the first two quarters of our nine-month period ended March 31, 2018, compared to three quarterly cash dividends, each for $0.12 per share, for each of the three quarters of our nine-month period ended March 31, 2017.
We also paid less than $0.1 million of dividends that had been held as dividends payable from previous declarations to restricted stockholders for whom restrictions lapsed during each period.
On October 27, 2017, we announced the Board of Directors’ decision to suspend future dividends after the payment of the December 2017 quarterly dividend while the Board of Directors and its Investment Committee consider potential acquisition targets and alternative uses of our remaining assets.
Although we do not have any outstanding debt or borrowing facilities in place at March 31, 2018, we periodically review the need for credit arrangements.
Based upon our existing cash balances, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the near term, we believe that existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital, capital expenditure requirements and any dividend payments for at least the next twelve months from the date of issuance of this quarterly report.
We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $62 million and $61.1 million of cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments at March 31, 2018, compared to working capital of $45.3 million and $42.3 million cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments at June 30, 2017.
At March 31, 2018, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures.
As of March 31, 2018, less than 0.1% of our cash is in foreign accounts and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months.
Based upon our existing cash balances and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months.
We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2018.
The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.
Most of our critical accounting policies and estimates have been impacted by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 filed on September 20, 2017 and the section titled “Risk Factors Relating to the Proposal to Approve the Asset Sale” in our Definitive Proxy Statement filed on November 6, 2017.
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
 (1)On January 2, 2018, the Company purchased 41,566 shares from certain employees whose shares vested due to the change in control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
The repurchase of shares was approved by the Board of Directors on a one-time basis to facilitate employees’ payment of payroll withholding taxes due upon vesting of the shares.
Shares were repurchased from employees only to the extent required to fund minimum required withholding taxes based on the closing price nearest to the December 31, 2017 vest date.
From April 1 through May 3, 2018, we repurchased an additional 354,336 shares of our common stock, bringing the total shares repurchased this fiscal year to 708,426 at average of $5.12 (of which 666,860 shares were repurchased under the stock repurchase plan described in footnote 2 above).
