CCUR Holdings, Inc.
CCUR Holdings, Inc.
ccur holdings, inc.
ccur holdings, inc.
 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
The Content Delivery business consisted of (i) software, hardware and services for intelligently streaming video content to a variety of consumer devices and storing and managing content in the network and (ii) Aquari™ Storage, a unified scale-out storage solutions product that is ideally suited for a wide range of enterprise IT and video applications that require advanced performance, very large storage capacities, and a high degree of reliability.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations.
See Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018.
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
We determine the appropriate classification of investments in debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such determinations at each balance sheet date.
Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business.
The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of other interest income within the statement of operations.
Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary.
As of September 30, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired.
Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
Due to the loss from continuing operations for both periods presented, weighted average common share equivalents of 31,665 and 218,719 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
 ·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.
As noted above, on December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of the Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
Fixed maturity debt securities are classified as “available for sale”, and as such, adjustments to fair value are recorded within other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheet as unrealized gains and losses.
Upon our adoption of ASU 2016-01, effective July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments.
The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale as of September 30, 2018 are shown by contractual maturity in the table below.
Actual maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
At this time, we do not believe there will be any material changes to the amounts previously provided for the impact of the TCJA.
We expect to conclude our analysis during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
As a result of the TCJA, we are reassessing our intentions related to our indefinite reinvestment assertion as part of our provisional estimates.
We currently have an immaterial amount of cash available for repatriation of less than $35.
As of June 30, 2018, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $56,113 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in fiscal year 2019, and the remainder expire at various dates through fiscal year 2037.
The study concluded that we have not had an ownership change for the period from July 22, 1993 to June 30, 2018; therefore, the NOLs will not be subject to limitation under Section 382.
If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset.
We have taken steps to protect the value of our NOLs with a “Tax Asset Preservation Plan” which is described more fully in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, we had state NOLs of $33,240.
The state NOLs expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2037.
During the year ended June 30, 2017, we applied for both a U.S. federal and state of Georgia research and development tax credit in the amounts of $719 and $675, respectively, for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016.
For U.S. federal tax purposes, the credit cannot be utilized immediately but will carryforward for a period of 20 years.
For the state of Georgia tax credit, we have recorded the credit within both other current assets and other long-term assets with an offset in both accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets as of September 30 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 we received $173 of proceeds from prior utilization of our State tax credits.
Subsequent to the September 30, 2018 and prior to the filing date of this Form 10Q, we received an additional $376 of proceeds from prior utilization of our State tax credits.
As of September 30, 2018, we had share-based compensation plans which are described in Note 9, “Share-Based Compensation,” to the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
We recognize stock compensation expense over the requisite service period of the individual grantees, which generally equals the vesting period.
As of September 30, 2018, we had 15,000 stock options outstanding and 60,000 restricted shares outstanding.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company did not grant any equity compensation and no options or restricted stock awards vested, forfeited or canceled.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $59 and $149, respectively, of share-based compensation within general and administrative expenses of our continuing operations.
 8.Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses
 9.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements with the chief financial officer and another employee, employment may be terminated by either the respective employee or us at any time.
In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause, or in certain circumstances terminates constructively or expires, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from six to 12 months, depending on the employee, and bonus severance.
Additionally, if terminated, our chief financial officer will be entitled to COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan for the 12-month period following termination.
At September 30, 2018, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements was $491.
We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark.
