References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. 
References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2018 (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Unless otherwise noted, discussion of our business and results of operations in this report refers to our continuing operations. 
The Investment Committee, a special sub-committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors” or the “Board”), was established in December 2017 upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders. Such alternatives include, but are not limited to, evaluating opportunities to acquire all or a controlling interest in one or more operating businesses or assets intended to provide attractive returns for our stockholders and that are intended to result in appreciation in value, a more liquid trading market for our stock, and enhance our ability to utilize our existing U.S. federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location. During our fiscal year 2019, the Board dissolved the Investment Committee and established an Asset Management Committee as a standing committee of the Board. The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate and merchant cash advance (“MCA”) operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses. 
On January 1, 2019, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board, the Board adopted the 2019 CCUR Bonus Plan, also referred to herein as the “NAV Program,” pursuant to which certain employees of the Company have the opportunity, among other things, to earn cash and equity incentive awards through a program based on growth in the Company’s net asset value (“NAV”). The NAV Program replaces the Company’s previous “Annual Incentive Bonus” program implemented for senior employees. The NAV Program is subject to, and where applicable, governed by, the terms of the Company’s stock plan. 
On February 13, 2019, we closed on the Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which we acquired the LuxeMark operating assets through our newly formed LMCS subsidiary. This transaction was negotiated pursuant to a previously announced letter of intent between the Company and LuxeMark. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark. LMCS will do business as “LuxeMark Capital” with daily operations led by the three LuxeMark principals. A three-member board comprised of two CCUR Holdings executives and one LuxeMark principal will oversee LMCS. As consideration under the Purchase Agreement, at closing LMCS paid LuxeMark $1.2 million and issued warrants that will allow the three current LuxeMark principals to purchase up to an aggregate of 444,361 shares of the Company’s common stock, with vesting dependent upon LMCS achieving certain performance levels. The warrants expire in 10 years and are exercisable at $6.50 per share. The consideration under the Purchase Agreement also includes four cash earnout payments of up to $1 million each year based on the performance of LMCS for the annual calendar periods of 2019 through 2022, in the aggregate not to exceed $4 million. In addition, the Company has made available to LMCS a total of $10.35 million in debt financing for the purpose of allowing LMCS to fund MCA transactions through syndication funding of MCAs and loans to MCA originators. Approximately $5 million that the Company previously funded through an MCA originator, facilitated by LuxeMark, has been assigned to LMCS and credited as an advance against the $10.35 million in debt financing made available to LMCS. 
In February 2019, the Company entered into a management agreement (the “Management Agreement”), as amended, with CIDM LLC (“CIDM” or the “Asset Manager”) under which CIDM will provide consulting services and advice to the Board of Directors and the Company’s management regarding asset allocation and acquisition strategy. CIDM will also exclusively manage the Company’s portfolio of publicly traded investments in order to better position the Company to increase returns as a whole. CIDM is an affiliate of the Company’s largest stockholder, JDS1, LLC. Under the terms of the Management Agreement, in addition to a cash payment to compensate CIDM for expenses incurred in connection with providing these services, the Company will pay for these services through the issuance of cash-settled stock appreciation rights in respect of Company common stock resulting in no cash payment to CIDM unless and until there are certain qualifying changes of control of the Company (which does not include any change of control related to the stock ownership of CIDM or its affiliates). CIDM and its affiliates will be subject to standard trading restrictions and standstill provisions while the Management Agreement is active. 
MCA Income. In December 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by indirectly advancing funds to merchants through a third-party originator that is a leader in the MCA sector. We generated $0.6 million of income from MCAs during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Furthermore, we earned $0.2 million of syndication fee income from sourcing syndication capital for the MCA industry during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019, as a result of our purchase of the LuxeMark operating assets. 
Sales and Marketing Expenses. During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we began incurring sales and marketing expenses attributable to new business development resources that are focused on augmenting our current businesses and identifying potential new businesses. We incurred $0.1 million of these business development costs during the three months ended March 31, 2019, which are reported as part of our corporate operating expenses. Additionally, the former LuxeMark principals who now lead the LMCS daily operations following the closing of our LuxeMark acquisition are predominantly focused on generating incremental syndication fees and other MCA income for our MCA operations segment. As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.1 million of sales and marketing expenses during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019. We anticipate our sales and marketing expenses will increase during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019, when we will incur a full quarter of sales and marketing expenses from our MCA operations segment. 
 ·a $0.4 million decrease in non-acquisition-related legal and accounting fees. During the prior year period we incurred legal fees attributable to general corporate, governance and other matters following the sale of the Content Delivery business in December 2017 that did not recur in the current year period. Additionally, during the current year period, we reversed charges for approximately $0.1 million of non-acquisition-related legal fees that were predominantly invoiced in the prior year period that we disputed and ultimately settled for a lower amount during the current year period; and 
 ·a $0.3 million decrease in salaries and professional services expenses incurred in the prior year three-month period primarily attributable to the post-close reporting and transition activities for the sale of the Content Delivery business in December 2017. 
Provision for Credit Losses. We established a provision for credit losses specifically for the MCAs that we began participating in during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019. The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our consolidated statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group. Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. 
 ·accretion of discounts on purchased debt securities. 
Dividend Income. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the three months ended March 31, 2019. 
Net Realized Gain on Investments. During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we sold investments in certain debt and equity securities for which we recognized $0.5 million realized gains for the three months ended March 31, 2019. 
Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017. Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 includes certain expenses related to the sale of the Content Delivery business for that period, as further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 
Merchant Cash Advance Income. In December 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by indirectly advancing funds to merchants through a third-party originator that is a leader in the MCA sector. We generated $0.8 million of income from MCAs during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Furthermore, we earned $0.2 million of syndication fee income from sourcing syndication capital for the MCA industry during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019, as a result of our purchase of the LuxeMark operating assets. 
Sales and Marketing Expenses. During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we began incurring sales and marketing expenses attributable to new business development resources that are focused on augmenting our current businesses and identifying potential new businesses. We incurred $0.1 million of these business development costs during the nine months ended March 31, 2019, which are reported as part of our corporate operating expenses. Additionally, the former LuxeMark principals who now lead the LMCS daily operations following closing of our LuxeMark acquisition are predominantly focused on generating incremental syndication fees and other MCA income for our MCA operations segment. As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.1 million of sales and marketing expenses during the latter half of the third fiscal quarter of our fiscal year 2019. We anticipate our sales and marketing expenses will increase during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019, when we will incur a full quarter of sales and marketing expenses from our MCA operations segment. 
 ·a $1.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense, primarily resulting from the change of control triggered by the sale of the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017; 
 ·a $0.8 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the nine months ended March 31, 2018 for the completion of the sale of the Content Delivery business, and secondarily for annual incentive plan bonuses for operating results for the first half of our fiscal year 2018; 
 ·a $0.6 million decrease in severance primarily related to our former Chief Executive Officer that was terminated in conjunction with the sale of the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017; 
 ·a $0.1 million decrease in insurance expenses resulting from a reduction of operating complexity, and 
 ·a $0.2 million decrease in Board fees. In the nine months ended March 31, 2018, we incurred fees attributable to the resignation of three of our independent directors that did not recur in the nine months ended March 31, 2019. Additionally, in the nine months ended March 31, 2018, we reduced certain recurring Board fees for our remaining Board members. 
Partially offsetting these decreases in expenses, we incurred $0.3 million of incremental legal and accounting fees in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 in connection with the consummation of the LuxeMark transaction. 
Provision for Credit Losses. We established a provision for credit losses specifically for the MCAs that we began participating in during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019. The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our consolidated statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group. Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. 
 ·accretion of discounts on purchased debt securities. 
Dividend Income. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018 we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the nine months ended March 31, 2019. 
Net Realized Gain on Investments. In the first and third quarters of our fiscal year 2019, we sold investments in certain debt and equity securities for which we recognized $0.7 million of realized gains for the nine months ended March 31, 2019. 
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017. Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, which is further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 
 ·potential liquidation of the Company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation. 
We generated $0.5 million and used $7.6 million of cash for operating activities during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Operating cash generated during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to cash generated by our operations and investments exceeding our operating costs. Operating cash flows during the nine months ending March 31, 2018 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous period’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business in our fiscal year 2017, inventory purchases and accrued compensation, coupled with losses from continuing operations. 
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, we funded $7.5 million of commercial loans, most of which were mortgage loans through our real estate operating subsidiary. Our mortgage loans typically require interest only payments until maturity or payoff. We received $4.4 million from principal payments during the nine months ended March 31, 2019, as three loans were paid off during the period. 
In December 2018, we entered into an arrangement with a leading MCA originator to participate in funding its MCA originations. We made initial advances of $8.0 million to the originator, who in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication. As merchant receivables have been collected, we have used the collected funds to fund additional MCAs. Through March 31, 2019, we have funded $13.0 million in MCAs (including the original $8.0 million) and collected $4.5 million of merchant receivables as repayment for these advances. Additionally, we provided $4.5 million of cash advances to an aviation business to fund deposits required for aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee. We collected $2.0 million of these aviation advances during the nine months ended March 31, 2019. 
On January 2, 2018, we purchased 41,566 shares from certain non-Section 16 employees whose shares vested due to the change in control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017. The $239 thousand repurchase of shares at $5.76 per share was approved by the Board of Directors on a one-time basis to facilitate employees’ payment of payroll withholding taxes due upon vesting of the shares. Shares were repurchased from employees only to the extent required to fund minimum required withholding taxes based on the closing price nearest to the December 31, 2017 vest date. 
In the nine months ended March 31, 2018, we paid two quarterly cash dividends, each for $0.12 per share. We also paid less than $0.1 million of dividends that had been held as dividends payable from previous declarations to restricted stockholders for whom restrictions lapsed during each period. Additionally, in January 2018, as a result of the acceleration of vesting of substantially all of our previously unvested restricted stock triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business, we paid $0.3 million of previously accrued dividends in January 2018. On October 27, 2017, we announced the Board of Directors’ decision to suspend future dividends after the payment of the December 2017 quarterly dividend while the Board of Directors and its then Investment Committee (now replaced by the Asset Management Committee) considered potential acquisition targets and alternative uses of our remaining assets. 
We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $49.6 million at March 31, 2019, compared to working capital of $55.3 million at June 30, 2018. At March 31, 2019, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. 
As of March 31, 2019, less than 0.2% of our cash was in foreign accounts and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months. Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report. 
We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2019. 
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
 3.12   Amended and Restated Bylaws of CCUR Holdings, Inc., as adopted on January 2, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 3.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 5, 2018 (File No. 001-37706 )). 
 4.1   Form of Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003 (File No. 000-13150)). 
 10.1†   2019 CCUR Bonus Plan, effective as of January 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 7, 2019 and Form 8-KA on January 9, 2019 (File No. 001-37706). 
 10.2†   Second Amendment to Employment Agreement between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and Warren Sutherland, dated as of January 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 7, 2019 and Form 8-KA on January 9, 2019 (File No. 001-37706)). 
 10.3   Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 13, 2019, by and among LuxeMark Capital, LLC, LM Capital Solutions, LLC, Avraham Zeines, Oskar Kowalski and Kamil Blaszczak (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 14, 2019 (File No. 001-37706)). 
 10.4   Management Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2019, between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and CIDM LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 14, 2019 (File No. 001-37706)). 
 10.5†   Employment Agreement by and between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and Wayne Barr, Jr., executed on February 14, 2019 and effective as of March 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 14, 2019 (File No. 001-37706)). 
 10.6   First Amendment to Management Agreement by and between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and CIDM LLC dated as of May 8, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2019). 
 †Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.  
