We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business.
 Item 1A.Risk Factors
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below.
We participate in the MCA industry, which presents a number of unique risks.
In December 2018, we acquired certain advance assets from an MCA originator and funder that is a leader in the MCA sector.
An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts.
This type of transaction is not characterized or structured as a loan.
Small businesses typically seek these advances for working capital purposes to finance their purchase of inventory or equipment, or to otherwise address immediate business needs.
This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions.
The illiquidity of our real estate portfolio may also result in us seeking financing in order to expand our operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan.
Real estate assets are relatively illiquid.
In addition, we may seek to restrict the percentage of our assets that are contained in illiquid real estate assets by seeking financing to continue expansion of our real estate operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan and invest in other value producing assets, including acquisition of additional businesses and assets.
Any financing that we obtain creates risks normally associated with financing, including the risk that our cash flow is insufficient to make timely payments of interest or principal.
When engaging in such transactions, we may not be successful in our diligence and underwriting efforts.
Furthermore, engaging in unfamiliar transactions may require additional management time and attention relative to transactions with which we are more familiar.
Such acquisitions entail substantial risk.
We may also incur significant transaction and integration costs in connection with such acquisitions.
We may be limited in the types of acquisitions that we can pursue in order to preserve use of our NOLs.
We currently have NOLs valued at $56.1 million as of June 30, 2018.
Use of our NOLs can be impaired by certain shifts in the ownership of our common stock and, thus, we are limited in our ability to use stock in an acquisition for NOL preservation purposes.
We have engaged the Asset Manager to provide asset management and other services to us pursuant to the Management Agreement.
Our ability to achieve investment and business objectives will be impacted by the performance of the Asset Manager and its ability to provide us with asset management and other services.
The fee structure with the Asset Manager could encourage the Asset Manager to invest our assets in riskier investments.
The Asset Manager has discretionary management over our portfolio of publicly traded securities, subject to our investment policy and oversight of the Board.
The Asset Manager has the ability to earn a management fee calculated based on the value of our total assets which may create incentive for the Asset Manager to invest, to the extent permitted by our investment policy, in investments with higher yield potential, that are generally riskier or more speculative, or sell an investment prematurely for a gain, in an effort to increase our short-term net income and thereby increase the fee to which it is entitled.
The Asset Manager may not be successful in equitably allocating investment opportunities between its managed accounts.
The Management Agreement requires the Asset Manager to act in a fair and reasonable manner in allocating investment and trading opportunities among our account and any other account managed by the Asset Manager or any of its affiliates.
Specifically, the Asset Manager is charged with (i) executing orders on an equitable basis whenever it would be appropriate for our account and the Asset Manager’s other managed accounts to participate in an investment opportunity and (ii) causing our account to pay or receive a price that is no less favorable than the average of the prices paid by the Asset Manager’s other managed accounts.
However, there is no assurance that the Asset Manager will be able to successfully eliminate any conflicts of interest arising from the allocation of investment opportunities.
In addition, the Asset Manager assists with the Company’s identification of target businesses and assets for acquisition.
The Asset Manager may identify target operating businesses and assets that would be appropriate for acquisition by us and other entities managed by the Asset Manager and, after consideration of relevant factors, the Asset Manager may determine the target opportunity is more suitable for us or a different entity.
The Asset Manager manages our portfolio pursuant to broad investment guidelines and the Board of Directors and Asset Management Committee do not approve each investment and financing decision made by the Asset Manager unless required by our investment guidelines.
Pursuant to the Management Agreement, the Asset Manager has exclusive authority to manage the Company’s securities investment portfolio pursuant to the parameters set in our investment guidelines.
The Board of Directors periodically reviews our investment guidelines but does not, and is not required to, review all of our proposed investments, except in certain circumstances outlined in the investment guidelines.
While the Asset Manager is required to provide reporting of transactions undertaken on our behalf, those transactions may be costly, difficult, or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the Board of Directors.
Merchant default rates on MCA transactions may be significantly affected by economic downturns or general economic conditions beyond our control or beyond the control of the merchants who repay the amounts advanced based on the volume of their accounts receivables.
While we do not transact directly with merchants, we have purchased participation interests in MCAs through funders that directly advance funding amounts to merchants and the returns received for those participation interests are at risk if merchants default in repayment.
Additionally, the fees obtained by our LMCS subsidiary for its servicing functions to funders and syndicate participants may be negatively impacted if merchant default rates are higher than the historical rates.
Our allowance for MCA losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors and may not be adequate to absorb MCA losses.
We face the risk that merchants will fail to repay advances made in MCA transactions.
We reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for MCA losses, the increase of which results in a reduction of our earnings as we record a provision expense for MCA losses.
We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for MCA losses.
While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, it is also dependent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment.
 ·successfully evaluate and continue to modify the MCA business under the relevant regulatory scheme.
 ·regional economic and political conditions.
The MCA industry may become highly regulated and regulations may continue to vary widely as the MCA industry starts to become less concentrated in certain areas and more widely accessible across the United States and international territories.
Over the last few years, as the MCA industry has been able to cover a significant gap in the availability of immediate funding for small merchant businesses, state and federal regulators have become more interested in learning the industry and exploring whether additional laws and regulations are needed to manage this evolving industry.
In addition, if new laws and regulations are imposed inconsistently, in terms of their manner and timing, across the jurisdictions in which our MCA business operates, this may create greater difficulty and expense in satisfying our regulatory compliance requirements.
It may also result in conflicting requirements between different jurisdictions.
While our MCA-related contracts typically contain a choice of law provision, the parties' choice of law is not guaranteed to be recognized and respected by a court depending upon the facts and circumstances considered to be determinative by the relevant court.
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
 3.12   Amended and Restated Bylaws of CCUR Holdings, Inc., as adopted on January 2, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
3.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 5, 2018 (File No.
 3.13   Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of CCUR Holdings, Inc., dated as of January 2, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 5, 2018 (File No.
 3.14   Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of CCUR Holdings, Inc., dated as of November 8, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 13, 2018 (File No.
 4.1   Form of Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
4.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003 (File No.
 4.2   Form of Series B Participating Preferred Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
4.5 to the Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed on March 1, 2016 (File No.
 10.1†   2019 CCUR Bonus Plan, effective as of January 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 7, 2019 and Form 8-KA on January 9, 2019 (File No.
 10.2†   Second Amendment to Employment Agreement between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and Warren Sutherland, dated as of January 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 7, 2019 and Form 8-KA on January 9, 2019 (File No.
 10.3   Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 13, 2019, by and among LuxeMark Capital, LLC, LM Capital Solutions, LLC, Avraham Zeines, Oskar Kowalski and Kamil Blaszczak (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 14, 2019 (File No.
 10.4   Management Agreement, dated as of February 14, 2019, between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and CIDM LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 14, 2019 (File No.
 10.5†   Employment Agreement by and between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and Wayne Barr, Jr., executed on February 14, 2019 and effective as of March 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 14, 2019 (File No.
 10.6   First Amendment to Management Agreement by and between CCUR Holdings, Inc. and CIDM LLC dated as of May 8, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2019).
 †Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
