References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018. 
References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined to Real-Time, Inc. pursuant to an Asset and Share Purchase Agreement. 
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Unless otherwise noted, discussion of our business and results of operations in this Form 10-Q refers to our continuing operations. 
A special committee of the Board, the Investment Committee, was established upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders. Such alternatives include, but are not limited to, evaluating opportunities to acquire all or a controlling interest in one or more operating businesses or assets intended to provide attractive returns for our stockholders and that are intended to result in appreciation in value, a more liquid trading market for our stock, and enhance our ability to utilize our existing U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”). Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location. 
We are actively pursuing business opportunities, including the acquisition of new businesses or assets, as well as developing and managing our current business and assets. We continually identify and evaluate a wide range of opportunities in an effort to reinvest the proceeds of our calendar year 2017 business dispositions and maximize use of other assets such as our NOLs. We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders. 
On October 2, 2018, we announced that the Company entered into a non-binding letter of intent (the “LOI”) to acquire an 80% membership interest in LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”), a privately held firm focused on the rapidly growing merchant cash advance sector of the finance industry that provides financing to small and medium-sized businesses. LuxeMark provides syndication capital or leverage to select funding companies within the sector and hopes to expand its business-to-business strategy by increasing the number of qualified funders to which it provides capital nationwide. 
Under the terms of the LOI, the Company will acquire the membership interest for a combination of up to $6 million in cash, and options and stock appreciation rights each payable over four years and subject to the achievement of prescribed financial performance milestones by LuxeMark. Additionally, the Company will commit up to $10 million of syndication capital under a separate agreement with LuxeMark, which amount shall be placed by LuxeMark with its qualified funders. The acquisition and deployment of syndication capital are subject to a number of conditions including the negotiation of definitive documentation and completion of CCUR’s due diligence investigation to CCUR’s satisfaction during a 120-day exclusivity period. 
We expect that the proposed transaction with LuxeMark will provide the Company with two revenue streams generated through (i) the Company’s 80% membership interest and thereby its pro-rated portion of the fee income earned by LuxeMark on its syndicators’ invested capital and (ii) returns received on the $10 million the Company makes available as a LuxeMark syndicator. 
Interest Income on Mortgage Loans. We created Recur Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we earned $0.1 million of interest income on five mortgage loans with an aggregate carrying value of $4.8 million and a weighted average annualized yield of 10.8%. 
 ·a $0.3 million decrease in legal and accounting fees. Prior period fees were higher as a result of incremental services related to evaluation of strategic options and efforts to close the sale of the Content Delivery business; 
 ·a $0.2 million decrease in Board fees. In the first quarter of our prior fiscal year we incurred fees attributable to the resignation of three of our independent directors that did not recur in the current year period. Additionally, in the second quarter of the prior fiscal year we reduced recurring Board fees for our remaining Board members; and 
 ·a $0.1 million decrease in stock-based compensation resulting from the vesting of substantially all of our outstanding equity awards upon the change in control resulting from the sale the Content Delivery business in the prior year, coupled with minimal equity grants leading up to and following the completion of this business sale, which resulted in lower ongoing stock-based compensation expense in the current year period. 
At this time, we do not expect a significant increase in expenses for our real estate operations as our management team has prior experience in this sector and believes it can manage the business without adding significant staffing resources. 
Dividend income. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018 the Company began investing a portion of its business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the three months ended September 30, 2018. 
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017. Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the three months ended September 30, 2017 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, which is further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 
 ·potential liquidation of the Company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation. 
We used $0.1 million and $3.5 million of cash for operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Operating cash usage during the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to operating costs during the period exceeding cash generating income, as approximately $0.5 million of our income for the period was from non-cash accretion and payment-in-kind interest. Operating cash flows during the three months ending September 30, 2017 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous quarter’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business, inventory purchases and accrued compensation. 
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we originated $1.8 million of short-term mortgage loans through our new real estate operating subsidiary, Recur Holdings LLC, of which $1.4 million was on deposit with an escrow agent at the end of the prior fiscal year. Additionally, we provided a $2.0 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee. Our remaining investing activities consisted of $1.6 million in purchases and $6.2 million in maturities or sales of debt and equity securities for the purpose of funding our operating expenses as we continue to evolve our real estate operating business and actively search for additional operating businesses to acquire. 
We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $55.8 million at September 30, 2018, compared to working capital of $55.3 million at June 30, 2018. At September 30, 2018, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. 
As of September 30, 2018, less than 0.1% of our cash was in foreign accounts and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months. Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. 
We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2018. 
 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
