fls.txt



item1.txt
We depend on our supply chain to enable us to meet the demands of our customers.
There have been no impairment charges recorded on the goodwill for any of our reporting units.
Although the investments are allocated to individual participants and investment decisions are made solely by those participants, the SERP is a nonqualified plan.
The expected dividend yield represents our annualized dividend in dollars divided by the stock price on the date of grant.
On a regular basis, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts in an effort to mitigate the risks associated with currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
We have classified the following assets and liabilities in accordance with the fair value hierarchy set forth in the applicable standards.
The increase in goodwill was due to $606,621 in goodwill related to the Acquisition offset by $686 in foreign exchange fluctuations.
Further, because of the short duration of these contracts, the Company has not disclosed the transaction price for the future performance obligations as of the end of each reporting period for contracts having an expected duration of one year or less.
Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific testing and data production be provided on our products.
As of June 30, 2019, purchase obligations include $8,859 of contractual commitments related to this agreement.
An allowance account would be established to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected.
These intangible assets are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets and will be subject to impairment testing.
In the opinion of management, these unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of Cabot Microelectronics’ financial position as of June 30, 2019, cash flows for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, and results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018.
Consequently, the requisite service period for the award is satisfied upon retirement eligibility.
If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the Credit Facilities will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the Credit Facilities.
Although the investments are allocated to individual participants and investment decisions are made solely by those participants, the SERP is a nonqualified plan.


item2.txt
This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance.
We believe we are in compliance with these covenants.
Net income was partially offset by acquisition and integration-related expenses, a charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, increased amortization and depreciation associated with re-valuing KMG assets to fair value, higher interest expenses resulting from the debt borrowing to finance the Acquisition, and the increased tax expense related to newly issued final regulations related to US Tax Reform which impacted our reserves for uncertain tax positions.
We believe we are in compliance with these covenants.
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we did not have any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which might have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements.
These items were partially offset by the absence of executive officer transition costs of $4.2 million that occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Under this program, we repurchased 48,007 shares for $5.0 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition, we have operations and customers located in the United Kingdom.
This requirement significantly increases our operating expenses, and we expect those expenses will continue in the future.
We depend on our supply chain to enable us to meet the demands of our customers.
These allowances are tradable so as to enable companies that manage to reduce their GHG emissions to sell their excess allowances to companies that are not reaching their emissions objectives.
Accordingly, we may be subject to an uninsured or under-insured loss in such cases; although unknown at present, the KMG-Bernuth warehouse fire may be such an instance.


