fls.txt



item1.txt
The EPA, foreign and state regulators, local governments, private environmental advocacy organizations and a number of large industrial companies have proposed or adopted policies designed to decrease the use of a variety of chemicals, including penta and others included in certain of our products.
For the three months ended December 31, 2018, approximately 0.2 million shares attributable to outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
We are currently evaluating the impact of implementation of this standard on our financial statements.
The Company changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition for customer incentives that provide free products and tiered pricing.
For example, in fiscal 2016, we recorded $1.0 million of impairment expense related to certain in-process technology, related to the NexPlanar acquisition.
Except for the discussion on revenue recognition below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
In the U.S. in particular, producers and distributors of pentachlorophenol (“penta”), which is a product manufactured and sold by a KMG subsidiary as part of the wood treatment business, are subject to registration and notification requirements under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”) and comparable state law in order to sell this product in the U.S..
ASU 2016-02 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2019, but early adoption is permitted.
The consideration was comprised of cash consideration to KMG common shareholders and equity award holders, stock consideration to KMG common shareholders and equity award holders, and cash consideration in the form of the retirement of KMG’s preexisting debt obligations.
Prepayments of the Term Loan Facility in connection with certain “repricing events” resulting in a lower yield occurring at any time during the first six months after the Acquisition Date must be accompanied by a 1.00% prepayment premium.
In instances where the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset fall into more than one level of the hierarchy, we have classified them based on the lowest-level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.
Customers pay in accordance with negotiated terms upon receipt of goods or completion of services.
In instances where the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset fall into more than one level of the hierarchy, we have classified them based on the lowest-level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.
Currently, our principal business is to supply electronic materials primarily to the semiconductor industry.
The accounting estimates that require management's most difficult and subjective judgments include, but are not limited to, those estimates related to bad debt expense, inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets and investments, business combinations, goodwill, other intangible assets, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies.
We maintain insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages.
The historical financial information has been adjusted by applying the Company’s accounting policies and giving effect to the pro forma adjustments, which consist of (i) amortization expense associated with identified intangible assets; (ii) depreciation of fixed asset step-up; (iii) accretion of inventory step-up value; (iv) the elimination of interest expense on pre-acquisition KMG debt and replacement of interest expense related to the acquisition-related financing; (v) transaction-related costs; (vi) accelerated share-based compensation expense; (vii) retention and severance expense incurred as a direct result of the acquisition; and (viii) an adjustment to tax-effect the aforementioned unaudited pro forma adjustments using an estimated weighted-average effective income tax rate of each entity and the jurisdictions to which the above adjustments relate.


item2.txt
During the quarter we received $1,044 million in debt proceeds, net of $21 million in debt issuance costs, which was used for the Acquisition.
The interest payments reflect variable LIBOR-based rates currently in effect on $1,065 million of our outstanding debt.
These adjustments include items related to our acquisition of KMG, such as expenses incurred to complete the acquisition, integration related expenses, and impact of fair value adjustments to inventory acquired from KMG.
The increase was primarily due to the absence of the adverse impact of the Tax Act in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the inclusion of KMG results, and higher revenue and profitability within the legacy businesses.
Revenue for our first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $221.8 million, which represented an increase of 58.4% from the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Electronic Materials adjusted EBITDA increased from the prior year driven by the addition of approximately six-weeks of KMG’s electronic chemicals results, as well as stronger organic profitability, driven by the leverage achieved on higher sales volume.


item3.txt
We periodically enter into forward contracts in an effort to manage foreign currency exchange exposure on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.


item4.txt
A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.


part2.txt
For instance, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for the division of our Board of Directors into three classes as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms.
We are currently involved in investigation and remediation activities at certain sites.
The EPA, foreign and state regulators, local governments, private environmental advocacy organizations and a number of large industrial companies have proposed or adopted policies designed to decrease the use of a variety of chemicals, including penta and others included in certain of our products.
The manner in which the Company repurchases its shares is discussed in Part I, Item 2, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources”, of this Report on Form 10-Q.
The manner in which the Company repurchases its shares is discussed in Part I, Item 2, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources”, of this Report on Form 10-Q.


