fls.txt



item1.txt
We have determined that the effect of applying the new revenue standards during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 was immaterial to our financial statements compared to revenue guidance in effect before the adoption of the new revenue standards.
The unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by Cabot Microelectronics pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).
The Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2018 were derived from audited financial statements.
The valuations and the underlying assumptions have been deemed reasonable by the Company’s management.
Revenue is recorded at a point in time when the services are completed as this is when right to payment and customer acceptance occurs.
The PSUs that have been awarded may be subject to downward or upward adjustment depending on the total shareholder return achieved by the Company during the particular performance period related to the PSUs, relative to the total shareholder return of an established market index.
In addition, the Company is required to prepay outstanding loans under the Term Loan Facility, subject to certain exceptions, with up to 50% of the Company’s annual excess cash flow, as defined under the Credit Agreement, and 100% of the net cash proceeds of certain recovery events and non-ordinary course asset sales.
See below for a summary of the different components that comprise the total consideration.
The EPA, foreign and state regulators, local governments, private environmental advocacy organizations and a number of large industrial companies have proposed or adopted policies designed to decrease the use of a variety of chemicals, including penta and others included in certain of our products.
The licenses, permits and product registrations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal by governmental authorities.
The excess of consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired was recorded as goodwill, and is not deductible for income tax purposes.
Certain of these contingencies are discussed below.
We maintain insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages.
KMG’s net loss since the Acquisition Date was $5,561, which includes $19,996 of acquisition related costs and a $14,827 charge for fair value write-up of inventory sold.
Since the two segments operate independently and serve different markets and customers, there are no sales between segments.
We have designated this swap agreement as a cash flow hedge pursuant to ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging".


item2.txt
Selling, general and administrative expenses were $111.5 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, which represented an increase of 125.9%, or $62.1 million, from the six months ended March 31, 2018.
This increase was primarily driven by a higher value product mix, selected price increases and higher sales volume.
We calculated the income tax effect of the pro forma adjustments using a 21.6% and 23.4% tax rate, which represent the weighted average statutory tax rate for six-month period ended March 31, 2019 and year-ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
 Segment data is presented for our two reportable segments for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
Commitment fees are based on our estimated consolidated leverage ratio in future periods.
Repurchases are subject to SEC regulations as well as certain conditions specified in the plan.
Performance Materials’ adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin expanded from the prior year due to the addition of KMG’s heritage performance materials business.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We expect these technological changes, and this drive toward lower costs, higher quality and performance and higher yields, will continue in the future.
Recent changes to the Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) could result in increased regulation and required testing of chemicals we manufacture and could increase the costs of compliance for our operations.
In particular, China is a fast-developing market for the semiconductor industry, and is an area of potential continued growth for us.
We may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements.
Furthermore, additional equity financing may dilute the interests of our common stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could further restrict our business activities or our ability to execute our strategic objectives and could reduce our profitability.


