fls.txt



item1.txt
2016-15 "Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments" (Topic 230).
  For additional information regarding the estimation of fair value, refer to Note 13 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
For instance, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for the division of our Board of Directors into three classes as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms.
The effective portion was recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, while the ineffective portion was recorded as a component of interest expense.
All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated as of June 30, 2018.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we entered into floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements to hedge the variability in LIBOR-based interest payments on $86,406 of our outstanding variable rate debt.
We also develop and provide products for demanding surface modification applications in other industries through our Engineered Surface Finishes (ESF) business.
Cash flows from purchases, sales and maturities of these securities are presented as investing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
This fee was recorded as a long-term asset at its present value and is being amortized into cost of goods sold on a straight-line basis through the expiration date of the agreement.
We will continue to monitor our ARS for impairment indicators, which may require us to record an impairment charge that is deemed other-than-temporary.
There were no indicators of potential impairment during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, so it was not necessary to perform an impairment review for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the quarter.
In addition, all derivatives, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, are required to be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value on a gross basis.
As of June 30, 2018, purchase obligations include $1,502 of contractual commitments related to our Cabot Corporation supply agreement for fumed silica.
See Note 8 for a detailed discussion of our long-term debt.
There have been no impairment charges recorded on the goodwill for any of our reporting units.
This tax holiday reduced our income tax provision by approximately $3,094 and increased our diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.12 during the nine months ended June 30, 2017.


item2.txt
The increase in cash flows from operating activities compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher revenue and gross margin, partially offset by a higher increase in working capital.
The increase in the effective tax rate during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the unfavorable initial impact of the Tax Act that was enacted in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the absence of benefits of the tax holiday in South Korea, which expired as of October 2017, partially offset by the benefit from stock option exercises beginning October 2017 and benefits related to changes in prior year tax positions.
The $1.5 million payment for calendar 2019 is included in accrued liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2018.
Additionally, continued capacity expansions in 3D NAND, primarily in Korea and China, should continue to provide future growth opportunities for us.
The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher sales volume and a higher value product mix, partially offset by higher fixed manufacturing costs, including higher staffing-related expense.
The decrease resulted from the payoff of our Term Loan in April 2018.
Operating expenses were $113.6 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to $105.1 million during the same period of fiscal 2017, which include $1.4 million of NexPlanar amortization expense for both periods.


item3.txt
Approximately 26% of our revenue is transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.


item4.txt
Further, the design of a control system must take into account the benefits of controls relative to their costs.


part2.txt
Transactions such as these could have negative effects on our results of operations, in areas such as contingent liabilities, gross margins, amortization charges related to intangible assets and other effects of accounting for the purchases of other business entities.
Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and various provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult or expensive to effect a change in control of our Company.
Furthermore, competitive dynamics within the semiconductor industry may impact our business.
Furthermore, competitive dynamics within the semiconductor industry may impact our business.


