fls.txt



item1.txt
The provisions of this standard provide guidance to determine whether the acquisition or sale of a set of assets or activities constitutes a business.
Furthermore, competitive dynamics within the semiconductor industry may impact our business.
Hedge effectiveness is tested quarterly to determine if hedge treatment continues to be appropriate.
ASU 2016-16 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2018, but early adoption is permitted.
CMP polishes surfaces at an atomic level, thereby helping to enable IC device manufacturers to produce smaller, faster and more complex IC devices with fewer defects.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cabot Microelectronics and its subsidiaries.
2017-07 "Improving the Presentation of Net Period Pension Cost and Net Period Postretirement Benefit Cost" (Topic 715).
Other long-term assets are comprised of the long-term portion of prepaid unamortized debt costs, related to our Revolving Credit Facility, as well as miscellaneous deposits and prepayments on contracts extending beyond the next 12 months.
Enactment of the Tax Act resulted in the incurrence of a net loss for the quarter ending December 31, 2017.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted ASU No.
In addition, all derivatives, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, are required to be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value on a gross basis.
The provisions of ASU 2016-02 require a dual approach for lessee accounting under which a lessee would recognize a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability.
The significant increase is primarily driven by discrete adjustments related to recently enacted Tax Act in the U.S.
In particular, China is a fast-developing market for the semiconductor industry, and is an area of potential continued growth for us.
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Due to the change in retirement eligibility for awards as of December 2017, $860 was immediately recorded as expense in the three months ended December 31, 2017.
As of December 2017, the provisions of new stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards state that except in certain circumstances including termination for cause, once an employee meets the retirement eligibility requirements, any remaining unvested share-based awards will continue to vest regardless of termination of service.


item2.txt
In addition, we currently have a balance of $48.3 million in securities which are designated as available-for-sale securities.
Periodically, we also continue the "10b5-1" stock purchase plan agreements with independent brokers to repurchase shares of our common stock in accordance with guidelines pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
We continue to expect our total capital expenditures in fiscal 2018 to be within the range of $18.0 million to $22.0 million.
The $1.5 million payment for calendar 2019 is included in accrued liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2017.
The year-over-year decrease was primarily due to the impact of the enactment of the Tax Act in December 2017, which reduced diluted earnings per share by $1.26.
We have been operating under a multi-year supply agreement with Cabot Corporation, which is not a related party and has not been one since 2002, for the purchase of fumed silica, the current term of which runs through December 31, 2019.


item3.txt
Some of our foreign operations maintain their accounting records in their local currencies.


item4.txt
A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.


part2.txt
Approximately 87% of our revenue was generated by sales to customers outside of the United States for both the three months ended December 31, 2017 and full fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
For instance, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for the division of our Board of Directors into three classes as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms.
Our customers continually pursue lower cost of ownership and higher quality and performance of materials consumed in their manufacturing processes, including CMP slurries and pads, as a means to reduce costs, increase the yield in their manufacturing facilities, and achieve desired performance of the IC devices they produce.
Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in the semiconductor industry and to adapt, improve and customize our products for advanced IC applications in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends.


