Item 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act).
Based on that evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, as that term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act, that occurred during the period covered by this quarterly report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Refer to Note G, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain legal proceedings, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.
Item 1A.
RISK FACTORS

Current and potential stockholders should consider carefully the risk factors described in more detail in our 2017 Form 10-K. We believe that as of December 31, 2017, there has been no material change to this information.
Any of these factors, or others, many of which are beyond our control, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and stock price.
Item 2.
Item 4.
Item 5.
Item 6.
EXHIBITS


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
