Item 1.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
See accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE A – ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
Although these estimates are based on management’s knowledge of current events and actions it may undertake in the future, these estimates may ultimately differ from actual results.
Operating results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018.
At December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, the total amount of restricted cash included in “Other noncurrent assets, net” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was approximately $3 million and $1 million, respectively.
Restricted cash was included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period amounts shown in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
New Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted
In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-09 (ASU 2016-09), Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (Topic 718), which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions, including the income tax consequences and classification on the statements of cash flows.
ASU 2016-09 was adopted by the Company when effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The adoption of ASU 2016-09 resulted in the presentation of cash flows for employee taxes paid by withholding shares of restricted stock as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, which were previously presented as an operating activity.
A retrospective method of adoption was required for this change, which resulted in the reclassification of cash outflows of approximately $34 million from operating activities to financing activities within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended December 31, 2016.
Although not material, ASU 2016-09 also requires that excess tax benefits on share-based compensation expense be recognized in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as a component of the provision for income taxes, rather than additional paid-in capital, on a prospective basis.
As permitted by ASU 2016-09, although not material, the Company elected to retrospectively reclassify cash flows related to excess tax benefits on share-based compensation expense as an operating activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, which were previously presented as a financing activity.
In addition, as permitted by ASU 2016-09, the Company elected to continue to estimate forfeitures expected to occur to determine the amount of share-based compensation expense to be recognized in each period.
In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-15 (ASU 2016-15), Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (Topic 230), which is intended to reduce diversity in practice on how certain cash receipts and cash payments are classified and presented in the statements of cash flows.
In November 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-18 (ASU 2016-18), Restricted Cash (Topic 230), which is intended to reduce diversity in practice on how changes in restricted cash are classified and presented in the statements of cash flows.
ASU 2016-18 requires amounts generally described as restricted cash to be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statements of cash flows.
The Company elected to early adopt both ASU 2016-15 and ASU 2016-18 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 using the retrospective transition method of adoption.
The adoption of these standards did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, which creates new ASC Topic 606 (Topic 606) that will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective.
Topic 606 requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
The new standard will be effective for the Company’s first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and early application for fiscal year 2018 is permitted.
Topic 606 may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented (full retrospective method) or with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application (modified retrospective method).
The Company has established a cross-functional implementation team consisting of representatives across the organization and a third-party service provider to develop a project plan, including the evaluation of customer contracts across the organization, the development of policies, processes and tools to report financial results, the consideration of new performance measurements, and the implementation and evaluation of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting that will be necessary under the new standard.
The Company currently plans to adopt Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective method.
While the Company is continuing to determine the full effect of the new standard, it currently anticipates that this standard will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, and currently believes the most significant effect relates to the timing of the recognition of its software license revenue.
Specifically, under the new standard, the Company currently expects to recognize license revenue for its Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions products at the point-in-time the licensed software is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the customer contract as required by existing GAAP for most of the Company’s software arrangements.
As a result, a significant portion of the Company’s revenue backlog (i.e., deferred revenue and future billings on committed contracts) relating to the license component of customer contracts at March 31, 2018 under existing GAAP will not be recognized as revenue in future periods but instead will be included as part of the cumulative effect adjustment within retained earnings upon adoption of Topic 606.
Such cumulative effect adjustment will primarily result from (i) the significant reduction in deferred revenue relating to the license component of customer contracts as mentioned above, (ii) the establishment of a significant contract asset related to the Company’s contractual right to consideration for completed performance obligations not yet billed or collected (i.e., license revenue recognized in advance of billings), (iii) the increase in deferred tax liabilities arising from the increase in contract assets, and (iv) the increase in income taxes payable from both the increase in contract assets as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017 (the “Tax Act”) and the portion of deferred revenue included in the cumulative effect adjustment that has not been previously included as taxable income on a tax return.
The increase in contract assets and decrease in deferred revenue, when taken together with those provisions of the Tax Act which affect tax method revenue recognition for accrual-method U.S. taxpayers, will result in an acceleration of the timing of the Company’s income tax payments.
This acceleration of the timing of income tax payments will be significant in relation to the Company’s current annual income tax payments within cash flows from operations.
While the Company has not finalized its assessment of the impact arising from the Topic 606 adoption and finalization of the assessment could result in revisions to these estimates, which could be material, the Company currently estimates additional income tax payments in the range of approximately $100 million to $150 million per year over a four-year period, beginning in fiscal year 2019.
The Company currently expects these additional income tax payments will be largely offset by the benefit from the reduced U.S. corporate tax rate enacted by the Tax Act.
The Company believes that taken together, the incremental income tax payments resulting from the Topic 606 adoption and enactment of the Tax Act will be approximately $25 million to $50 million, on average, per year for the next four years, beginning in fiscal year 2019.
Although the Company continues to evaluate the items listed above, it does not currently expect Topic 606 to have a significant effect on its customer billings and cash collections from customer billings.
The Company currently believes that the point-in-time recognition requirement of the new standard will increase the variability of its revenue and overall net income period-to-period.
The Company does not currently expect Topic 606 will have a significant effect on the timing of revenue recognition for its maintenance, Software-as-a-Service and professional services contracts.
However, under Topic 606, more judgment and estimates will be required within the revenue recognition process than are required under existing GAAP, including estimates of the standalone selling price for each performance obligation identified within the Company’s contracts.
These judgments and estimates will also impact the proportion of a contract’s value that is reported as license, maintenance and other elements, and the amounts assigned to the Company’s reportable segments.
Topic 606 will also require the Company to capitalize a portion of its sales commissions and other incremental costs to acquire contracts (i.e., contract costs), which are currently expensed as incurred.
Upon adoption of Topic 606, the capitalization of contract costs will be included as part of the cumulative effect adjustment within retained earnings.
The Company currently anticipates it will amortize these capitalized contract costs over an expected period of benefit ranging from approximately four to seven years.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of this requirement on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-02 (ASU 2016-02), Leases (Topic 842), which requires a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet for leases with accounting lease terms of more than 12 months.
ASU 2016-02 will replace most existing lease accounting guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the consolidated statements of operations.
ASU 2016-02 will be effective for the Company’s first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and requires the modified retrospective method of adoption.
Early adoption is permitted.
Although the Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption and the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, the Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
In October 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-16 (ASU 2016-16), Intra-Equity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory (Topic 740), which is intended to eliminate diversity in practice and provide a more accurate depiction of the tax consequences on intercompany asset transfers (excluding inventory).
ASU 2016-16 requires entities to immediately recognize the tax consequences on intercompany asset transfers (excluding inventory) at the transaction date, rather than deferring the tax consequences under current GAAP.
ASU 2016-16 will be effective for the Company’s first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and requires a modified retrospective method of adoption.
Early adoption is permitted, but only in the first quarter of an entity’s fiscal year.
The Company does not currently expect the adoption of ASU 2016-16 to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2017-04 (ASU 2017-04), Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (Topic 350), which is intended to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill.
ASU 2017-04 eliminates Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test requiring the assessment of fair value of individual assets and liabilities of a reporting unit to measure goodwill impairments.
Upon adoption of this new standard, goodwill impairments will be the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its fair value.
ASU 2017-04 will be effective for the Company’s first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and requires a prospective method of adoption.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption and the effect that ASU 2017-04 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In August 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2017-12 (ASU 2017-12), Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities (Topic 815), which is intended to improve the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of risk management activities in financial statements.
ASU 2017-12 makes certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current GAAP.
ASU 2017-12 will be effective for the Company’s first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and requires a prospective method of adoption for the amended presentation and disclosure guidance.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption and the effect that ASU 2017-12 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
NOTE B – ACQUISITIONS
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, the Company acquired Automic Holding GmbH (Automic) and Veracode, Inc. (Veracode).
The results of operations of Automic and Veracode are reported predominantly in the Company’s Enterprise Solutions segment.
The purchase price allocation for Automic and Veracode is provided within the table below.
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The excess purchase price over the estimated value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded to goodwill.
The allocation of the purchase price to goodwill was predominantly due to synergies the Company expects to achieve through integration of the acquired technology with the Company’s existing product portfolio and the intangible assets that are not separable, such as assembled workforce and going concern.
The goodwill relating to the Company’s acquisitions of Automic and Veracode is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes and is allocated to the Enterprise Solutions segment.
The purchase price allocation for Automic was finalized during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded $72 million of additional deferred tax assets relating to Veracode based on further review of their historical tax records.
The Company expects to complete its analysis of Veracode’s historical tax records and finalize the purchase price allocation for Veracode in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 included total revenue of approximately $68 million and $182 million, respectively, and net loss of approximately $16 million and $53 million, respectively, from Automic and Veracode.
The unaudited pro forma combined financial information in the table below summarizes the results of operations for the Company, Automic and Veracode as though the companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal year 2017.
The pro forma financial information presented below is for informational purposes only and is not indicative of the results of operations that would have been achieved if the acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of fiscal year 2017, nor does it attempt to represent the results of future operations of the combined entities under the ownership and operation of the Company.
The pro forma results of operations also do not include any cost savings or other synergies that may result from these acquisitions or any estimated costs that have been or will be incurred by the Company to integrate the acquired assets.
The pro forma results below were based on estimates and assumptions, which the Company believes are reasonable.
The pro forma financial information for all periods presented also includes the business combination accounting effects resulting from these acquisitions, including the amortization charges from acquired intangible assets and other purchase accounting adjustments, employee retention costs and the related tax effects as though the Company, Automic and Veracode were combined as of the beginning of fiscal year 2017.
The pro forma effects of the Company’s other fiscal year 2017 acquisitions on the Company’s revenues and results of operations during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016 were immaterial.
The Company had approximately $11 million and $12 million of accrued acquisition-related costs at December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, respectively, related to purchase price amounts withheld subject to indemnification protections.
NOTE C – GOODWILL, CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company evaluates the useful lives and recoverability of capitalized software and other intangible assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist.
These evaluations require complex assumptions about key factors such as future customer demand, technology trends and the impact of those factors on the technology the Company acquires and develops for its products.
Impairments or revisions to useful lives could result from the use of alternative assumptions that reflect reasonably possible outcomes related to future customer demand or technology trends for assets within the Enterprise Solutions segment.
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE D – DEFERRED REVENUE
NOTE E – DERIVATIVES
The Company is exposed to financial market risks arising from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Changes in interest rates could affect the Company’s monetary assets and liabilities, and foreign exchange rate changes could affect the Company’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities and forecasted transactions.
The Company enters into derivative contracts with the intent of mitigating a portion of these risks.
At December 31, 2017, foreign currency contracts outstanding consisted of purchase and sale contracts with a total gross notional value of approximately $825 million and durations of less than three months.
The net fair value of these contracts at December 31, 2017 was a net liability of approximately $4 million, of which approximately $8 million is included in “Other current assets” and approximately $12 million is included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
At March 31, 2017, foreign currency contracts outstanding consisted of purchase and sale contracts with a total gross notional value of approximately $336 million and durations of less than three months.
The net fair value of these contracts at March 31, 2017 was a net asset of approximately $1 million, of which approximately $2 million is included in “Other current assets” and approximately $1 million is included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company is subject to collateral security arrangements with most of its major counterparties.
The Company posted no collateral at December 31, 2017 or March 31, 2017.
Under these agreements, if the Company’s credit ratings had been downgraded one rating level, the Company would still not have been required to post collateral.
NOTE F – FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
At December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2017, the Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3).
The carrying values of financial instruments classified as current assets and current liabilities, such as cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts payable, accrued expenses and short-term borrowings, approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of the instruments.
NOTE G – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
The Company has been or, from time to time, may be named as a defendant in various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business.
The Company may also become involved in contract issues and disputes with customers, including government customers.
Based on the Company’s experience, management believes that the damages amounts claimed in a case are not a meaningful indicator of the potential liability.
Claims, suits, investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain and it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of cases.
The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses in connection with its current lawsuits and any material claims and disputes, and intends to vigorously contest each of them.
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE H – STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE I – INCOME PER COMMON SHARE
Basic net income per common share excludes dilution and is calculated by dividing net income allocable to common shares by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income allocable to common shares by the weighted average number of common shares, as adjusted for the potential dilutive effect of non-participating share-based awards.
For the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, approximately 2 million shares and 1 million shares of Company common stock underlying restricted stock awards (RSAs) and options to purchase common stock were excluded from the calculation because their effect on income per share was anti-dilutive during the respective periods.
Weighted average RSAs of approximately 5 million shares and 5 million shares for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, were considered participating securities in the calculation of net income allocable to common stockholders.
For the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, approximately 2 million shares and 2 million shares of Company common stock underlying RSAs and options to purchase common stock were excluded from the calculation because their effect on income per share was anti-dilutive during the respective periods.
Weighted average RSAs of approximately 5 million shares and 5 million shares for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, were considered participating securities in the calculation of net income allocable to common stockholders.
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE J – ACCOUNTING FOR SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
There were no capitalized share-based compensation costs for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE K – INCOME TAXES
Income tax expense for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 was approximately $375 million and $509 million, respectively, compared with income tax expense for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016 of approximately $84 million and $257 million, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded a net discrete tax expense of approximately $310 million and $302 million, respectively.
Of these amounts, approximately $318 million resulted from preliminary estimates of the impact of changes in tax law in the United States resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act.
The amounts recorded for the impacts of the Tax Act are provisional amounts of approximately $220 million related to the taxation of unremitted earnings of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, which is payable over eight years, and approximately $98 million related to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the change in income tax rates.
The Company will continue to refine the provisional amounts as it reviews and analyzes results from the full fiscal year 2018 operations needed for calculations under the Tax Act, as well as further review the historic unremitted earnings of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries and take into consideration any additional regulatory guidance published by the U.S. tax authorities in respect of the Tax Act.
The Company expects to finalize the tax expense as soon as practical, but not later than the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The Company does not expect other provisions of the Tax Act to have a material impact for fiscal year 2018, but is evaluating the impact on future fiscal years.
Excluding the impact of discrete items for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company’s estimated annual effective tax rate was 26.6% and 28.9%, respectively.
The Company’s estimated annual effective tax rate for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 includes a reduction as compared with the six months ended September 30, 2017 of 2.0% related to the statutory tax rate reduction for fiscal year 2018 resulting from the Tax Act.
Changes in tax laws, the outcome of tax audits and any other changes in potential tax liabilities may result in additional tax expense or benefit in fiscal year 2018, which are not considered in the Company’s estimated annual effective tax rate.
While the Company does not currently view any such items as individually material to the results of the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations, the impact of certain items may yield additional tax expense or benefit in the remaining quarter of fiscal year 2018.
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE L – SUPPLEMENTAL STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS INFORMATION
For the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, interest payments were approximately $84 million and $66 million, respectively, and income taxes paid, net were approximately $231 million and $274 million, respectively.
NOTE M – SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company’s Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments are comprised of its software business organized by the nature of the Company’s software offerings and the platforms on which the products operate.
The Services segment is comprised of product implementation, consulting, customer education and customer training services, including those directly related to the Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions software that the Company sells to its customers.
Segment expenses do not include amortization of purchased software, amortization of other intangible assets, amortization of internally developed software products, share-based compensation expense, certain foreign exchange derivative hedging gains and losses, severance and facility actions approved by the Board, and other miscellaneous costs.
A measure of segment assets is not currently provided to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and has therefore not been disclosed.
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Item 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Refer to Note G, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain legal proceedings, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.
Item 1A.
RISK FACTORS
Current and potential stockholders should consider carefully the risk factors described in more detail in our 2017 Form 10-K. We believe that as of December 31, 2017, there has been no material change to this information.
Any of these factors, or others, many of which are beyond our control, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and stock price.
