Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in United States (“U.S.”) dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”).
The following discussion includes organic net sales growth which is a non-GAAP financial measure. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measure” for additional information regarding this measure.
Overview
●Our net sales decreased 5.4% and 3.2% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018, with sales declines in the Transportation Solutions and Communications Solutions segments, partially offset by growth in the Industrial Solutions segment. On an organic basis, our net sales decreased 2.8% and 0.5% during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018.
●Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 6.8% and 5.6% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market.
●Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 1.7% and 3.4% during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, primarily as a result of increased sales in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market.
●Net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $1,575 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Outlook
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.81 to $0.87 per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $50 million and $0.03 per share, respectively, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $5.42 to $5.48 per share in fiscal 2019. This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $400 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
We are monitoring the current macroeconomic environment, including the uncertain market conditions in China, and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets we serve. We continue to closely manage our costs in line with economic conditions. Additionally, we are managing our capital resources and monitoring capital availability to ensure that we have sufficient resources to fund future capital needs. See further discussion in “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”
Acquisitions
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we acquired three businesses for a combined cash purchase price of $296 million, net of cash acquired. The acquisitions were reported as part of our Transportation Solutions segment from the date of acquisition.
In June 2019, we announced our intent to acquire all outstanding shares of First Sensor AG through a voluntary public tender offer. We expect to complete the transaction in fiscal 2020.
Discontinued Operations
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we sold our Subsea Communications (“SubCom”) business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre-tax loss on sale of $86 million. The SubCom business met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and was reported as such in all periods presented on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior to reclassification to discontinued operations, the SubCom business was included in the Communications Solutions segment. See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.
Results of Operations
Net Sales
Net sales decreased $192 million, or 5.4%, in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily as a result of the negative impact of foreign currency translation of 3.4% due to the weakening of certain foreign currencies and organic net sales declines of 2.8%. Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $20 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
In the first nine months of fiscal 2019, net sales decreased $331 million, or 3.2%, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018. The decrease resulted primarily from the negative impact of foreign currency translation of 3.3% due to the weakening of certain foreign currencies. Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $75 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
See further discussion of net sales below under “Segment Results.”
Approximately 60% of our net sales were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Cost of Sales and Gross Margin
Operating Expenses
Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased $38 million and $62 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the same periods of fiscal 2018 due primarily to cost control measures and savings attributable to restructuring actions as well as lower incentive compensation costs and reduced selling expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 10.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 from 11.0% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and decreased to 11.0% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from 11.3% in the same period of fiscal 2018.
During fiscal 2019, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements impacting all segments. During fiscal 2018, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements primarily impacting the Industrial Solutions and Transportation Solutions segments. In connection with these initiatives, we incurred net restructuring charges of $184 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, of which $179 million related to the fiscal 2019 restructuring program. Annualized cost savings related to the fiscal 2019 actions commenced during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 are expected to be approximately $145 million and are expected to be realized by the end of fiscal 2021. Cost savings will be reflected primarily in cost of sales and selling, general, and administrative expenses.
See Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding net restructuring and other charges.
Operating Income
See discussion of operating income below under “Segment Results.”
Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased $13 million and $25 million during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to the expansion of our cross-currency swap program in fiscal 2019. Under the terms of the fiscal 2019 contracts, we receive interest in U.S. dollars at a weighted-average rate of 2.96% per annum and pay no interest. See Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our cross-currency swap program.
Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we sold our SubCom business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre-tax loss on sale of $86 million. The 
net sales of the business were $41 million and $510 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. The results for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 represent one month of activity. In the first nine months of fiscal 2018, net sales and operating income were negatively impacted by production delays on a program. See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.
Segment Results
●Automotive—Our organic net sales decreased 3.9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to declines of 5.2% and 4.3% in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, respectively. Organic net sales in the Americas region were flat relative to the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Our declines in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions were driven by market weakness.
●Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales decreased 5.1% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 due to market weakness in the Americas and EMEA regions.
●Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 0.7% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to growth in the industrial equipment market, partially offset by declines in the commercial transportation market.
●Automotive—Our organic net sales decreased 3.1% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 due to declines of 6.1% and 3.5% in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, respectively, partially offset by growth of 5.0% in the Americas region. Our declines in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions resulted from market weakness. In the Americas region, our growth was attributable to electronification and market share gains.
●Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales decreased 0.7% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 as a result of market weakness in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, partially offset by growth in the Americas region.
●Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 1.8% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 as a result of growth in the industrial equipment market, partially offset by declines in the commercial transportation and automotive markets.
Industrial Solutions
●Industrial equipment—Our organic net sales decreased 5.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to reduced demand resulting from high inventory levels at distributors, partially offset by strength in medical applications.
●Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas—Our organic net sales increased 16.9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as a result of strength in the commercial aerospace, defense, and oil and gas markets.
●Energy—Our organic net sales were flat in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as declines in the EMEA region were largely offset by strength in the Americas region.
●Industrial equipment—Our organic net sales decreased 1.8% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of market weakness in industrial applications, partially offset by strength in medical applications.
●Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas—Our organic net sales increased 14.4% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 due to growth in the commercial aerospace, defense, and oil and gas markets.
●Energy—Our organic net sales increased 3.0% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of strength in the Americas region, partially offset by declines in the EMEA region.
●Data and devices—Our organic net sales decreased 9.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to reduced demand resulting from high inventory levels at distributors, partially offset by growth in high speed connectivity in data center applications.
●Data and devices—Our organic net sales decreased 0.5% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 due primarily to market weakness in the Asia-Pacific region.
●Appliances—Our organic net sales decreased 6.3% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of market weakness in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions.
Excluding these items, operating income decreased in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018 due primarily to lower volume.
In the first nine months of fiscal 2019, net cash provided by continuing operating activities increased $196 million to $1,575 million from $1,379 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. The increase resulted primarily from higher collections of accounts receivable and fluctuations in cash collateral requirements under our cross-currency swap contracts, partially offset by a decrease in pre-tax income levels.
The amount of income taxes paid, net of refunds, during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 was $277 million and $317 million, respectively.
Capital expenditures were $570 million and $673 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. We expect fiscal 2019 capital spending levels to be approximately 5-6% of net sales. We believe our capital funding levels are adequate to support new programs, and we continue to invest in our manufacturing infrastructure to further enhance productivity and manufacturing capabilities.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we acquired three businesses for a combined cash purchase price of $296 million, net of cash acquired. See Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we received net cash proceeds of $297 million related to the sale of our SubCom business. See additional information in Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Total debt at June 28, 2019 and September 28, 2018 was $4,036 million and $4,000 million, respectively. See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, Tyco Electronics Group S.A. (“TEGSA”), our 100%-owned subsidiary, issued €350 million aggregate principal amount of fixed-to-floating rate senior notes due June 2021. The fixed-to-floating rate senior notes bear interest at a rate of 0% until June 2020 and then at a rate of three-month Euro Interbank Offered Rate (“EURIBOR”) plus 0.30% per year until maturity. In June 2020, we may, at our option, redeem the fixed-to-floating rate senior notes, as a whole, at 100% of the principal amount. Also, during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, TEGSA issued $350 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior notes due June 2020. The floating rate senior notes bear interest at a rate of three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 0.45% per year. The fixed-to-floating rate senior notes and floating rate senior notes are TEGSA’s unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and any future senior indebtedness of TEGSA and senior to any subordinated indebtedness that TEGSA may incur.
2020 to November 2023. The amended Credit Facility contains provisions that allow for incremental commitments of up to $500 million, an option to temporarily increase the financial ratio covenant following a qualified acquisition, and borrowings in designated currencies. TEGSA had no borrowings under the Credit Facility at June 28, 2019 or September 28, 2018.
The Credit Facility contains a financial ratio covenant providing that if, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, our ratio of Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Facility) for the then most recently concluded period of four consecutive fiscal quarters exceeds 3.75 to 1.0, an Event of Default (as defined in the Credit Facility) is triggered. The Credit Facility and our other debt agreements contain other customary covenants. None of our covenants are presently considered restrictive to our operations. As of June 28, 2019, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants and believe that we will continue to be in compliance with our existing covenants for the foreseeable future.
In addition to the Credit Facility, TEGSA is the borrower under our senior notes and commercial paper. TEGSA’s payment obligations under its senior notes, commercial paper, and Credit Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, TE Connectivity Ltd.
Payments of common share dividends to shareholders were $454 million and $435 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In March 2019, our shareholders approved a dividend payment to shareholders of $1.84 per share, payable in four equal quarterly installments of $0.46 per share beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and ending in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, our board of directors authorized an increase of $1.5 billion in our share repurchase program. We repurchased approximately 10 million of our common shares for $836 million and approximately 6 million of our common shares for $612 million under the share repurchase program during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. At June 28, 2019, we had $1.7 billion of availability remaining under our share repurchase authorization.
Commitments and Contingencies
Guarantees
At June 28, 2019, we had outstanding letters of credit, letters of guarantee, and surety bonds of $316 million.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Revenue Recognition
We adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. See Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our revenue recognition policy and the adoption of ASC 606.
Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements.
Organic Net Sales Growth
We present organic net sales growth as we believe it is appropriate for investors to consider this adjusted financial measure in addition to results in accordance with GAAP. Organic net sales growth represents net sales growth (the most comparable GAAP financial measure) excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, and acquisitions and divestitures that occurred in the preceding twelve months, if any. Organic net sales growth is a useful measure of our performance because it excludes items that are not completely under management’s control, such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and items that do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity.
Organic net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered a replacement for results in accordance with GAAP. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. The primary limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease our reported results. This limitation is best addressed by using organic net sales growth in combination with net sales growth in order to better understand the amounts, character, and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.
●conditions affecting demand for products in the industries we serve, particularly the automotive industry;
●competition and pricing pressure;
●raw material availability, quality, and cost;
●fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and impacts of offsetting hedges;
●financial condition and consolidation of customers and vendors;
●reliance on third-party suppliers;
●risks associated with current and future acquisitions and divestitures;
●global risks of business interruptions such as natural disasters;
●global risks of political, economic, and military instability, including volatile and uncertain economic conditions in China;
●risks associated with security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure;
●risks related to compliance with current and future environmental and other laws and regulations;
●risks of litigation;
●our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by our debt instruments;
●various risks associated with being a Swiss corporation;
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Submitted electronically with this report in accordance with the provisions of Regulation S-T
The instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
