ITEM 2: MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Forward-Looking Statements



Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by our use of the words “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “believes,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “will,” “may,” “shall,” “could,” “should,” and similar words and other statements of a similar sense. These statements are based upon our current estimates and expectations as to prospective events and circumstances, which may or may not be in our control and as to which there can be no firm assurances given. These forward-looking statements, which include statements regarding business and market trends, future financial performance, customer order rates and timing of related revenue, expected areas of growth, future product mix, research and development activities, investments, and strategic plans, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Such risks and uncertainties include: (1) the loss of a large customer; (2) current and future conditions in the global economy, including the imposition of tariffs or export controls; (3) the reliance on revenue from the consumer electronics or automotive industries; (4) the inability to penetrate new markets; (5) the inability to achieve significant international revenue; (6) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the use of derivative instruments; (7) information security breaches or business system disruptions; (8) the inability to attract and retain skilled employees; (9) the failure to effectively manage our growth; (10) the reliance upon key suppliers to manufacture and deliver critical components for our products; (11) the failure to effectively manage product transitions or accurately forecast customer demand; (12) the inability to design and manufacture high-quality products; (13) the technological obsolescence of current products and the inability to develop new products; (14) the failure to properly manage the distribution of products and services; (15) the inability to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property; (16) our involvement in time-consuming and costly litigation; (17) the impact of competitive pressures; (18) the challenges in integrating and achieving expected results from acquired businesses; (19) potential impairment charges with respect to our investments or for acquired intangible assets or goodwill; and (20) exposure to additional tax liabilities. The foregoing list should not be construed as exhaustive and we encourage readers to refer to the detailed discussion of risk factors included in Part I - Item 1A of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. The Company disclaims any obligation to subsequently revise forward-looking statements to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date such statements are made.



Executive Overview



Cognex Corporation is a leading worldwide provider of machine vision products that capture and analyze visual information in order to automate tasks, primarily in manufacturing processes, where vision is required. In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.



Cognex machine vision is primarily used to automate manufacturing and distribution processes in a variety of industries where the technology is widely recognized as an important component of automated production and quality assurance. Virtually every manufacturer can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, Cognex products are used by a broad base of customers across a variety of industries, including consumer electronics, automotive, consumer products, food and beverage, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices. Cognex products are also used outside of the manufacturing sector to automate distribution processes in the logistics industry for applications in retail distribution and ecommerce to scan, track, and sort goods through distribution centers.



Revenue for the first quarter of 2019 totaled $173,484,000, representing an increase of 2% from the first quarter of 2018. Strong sales in the logistics industry were partially offset by slowing order trends in the automotive industry in the Americas, lower demand from customers based in Greater China, and the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenue. Unfavorable absorption of manufacturing overhead costs over a declining inventory balance contributed to a decrease in the gross margin percentage to 73% of revenue in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 76% of revenue in the first quarter of 2018. Operating expenses increased by 2% over the prior year's first quarter due principally to the impact of headcount additions to support our future growth plans. Operating income was 17% of revenue in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 20% of revenue in the first quarter of 2018; net income was 19% of revenue in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 22% of revenue in the first quarter of 2018; and net income per diluted share was $0.19 in the first quarter of 2019 compared to $0.21 in the first quarter of 2018.





Results of Operations



As foreign currency exchange rates are a factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons, we believe the presentation of results on a constant-currency basis in addition to reported results helps improve investors’ ability to understand our operating results and evaluate our performance in comparison to prior periods. We also use results on a constant-currency basis as one measure to evaluate our performance. Constant-currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period. We generally refer to such amounts calculated on a constant-currency basis as excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes. Results on a constant-currency basis are not in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.



Revenue



Revenue for the first quarter of 2019 totaled $173,484,000, representing an increase of $3,917,000, or 2%, from the first quarter of 2018. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a decrease in revenue of approximately 3%, as sales denominated in Euros and Chinese Yuan were translated to U.S. Dollars at a lower rate. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, constant-currency revenue increased by approximately 5% from the first quarter of 2018. 



Sales to customers based in the Americas increased by 10% driven by strong sales in the logistics industry, partially offset by lower sales in the automotive industry. Sales to customers based in Europe increased by 6%, or 12% on a constant-currency basis, across a variety of industries with the highest growth coming from the logistics industry. Sales to customers based in Greater China, however, decreased by 16%, or 10% on a constant-currency basis, due to a general lower level of demand from customers across a broad base of industries. Sales to customers based in other regions in Asia decreased by 4%.



As of the date of this report, we expect revenue for the full year of 2019 will be slightly lower than 2018 as higher revenue in logistics, among other industries, is expected to be more than offset by significantly lower revenue in consumer electronics-one of our largest end markets. For the second quarter of 2019, we expect revenue will be higher than the first quarter of 2019, but lower than the second quarter of 2018. The sequential increase is expected due to higher sales in the logistics industry and the quarterly timing of revenue from large customer orders in the consumer electronics industry. 



Gross Margin



Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 73% for the first quarter of 2019 compared to 76% for the first quarter of 2018. The decline in the gross margin percentage was due primarily to the unfavorable absorption of manufacturing overhead costs, as well as the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenue, as the majority of our cost of revenue is based in U.S. Dollars. Unfavorable product mix toward relatively lower-margin sales in the logistics industry also contributed to the lower gross margin percentage.



As of the date of this report, we expect the gross margin percentage to be in the mid 70s range for the second quarter of 2019.



Operating Expenses











rates also resulted in a lower level of expenses, as costs denominated in foreign currencies were translated to U.S. Dollars at a lower rate. 





Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses









Non-operating Income (Expense)



The Company recorded foreign currency losses of $248,000 and $134,000 for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. Foreign currency gains and losses result primarily from the revaluation and settlement of accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany balances that are reported in one currency and collected in another. 



Investment income increased by $1,665,000, or 51%, from the first quarter of 2018. The increase was due to higher yields on the Company's portfolio of debt securities, and to a lesser extent additional funds available for investment.



The Company recorded other income of $927,000 and $277,000 for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. Other income included a net benefit of $985,000 and $442,000 in the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, from the revaluation of contingent consideration liabilities arising from business acquisitions.



Income Tax Expense



The Company’s effective tax rate was 7% and 2% of pre-tax income for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.



The effective tax rate included a decrease in tax expense of $2,730,000 and $4,935,000 in the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, from the excess tax benefit arising from the difference between the deduction for tax purposes and the compensation cost recognized for financial reporting purposes from stock option exercises. The Company cannot predict the level of stock option exercises by employees in future periods. 



Excluding the impact of these discrete tax events, the Company’s effective tax rate was 15% of pre-tax income for both the first quarters of 2019 and 2018. 



The Company is tax resident in numerous jurisdictions around the world and has identified its major tax jurisdictions as the United States, Ireland, and China. The statutory tax rate is 12.5% in Ireland and 25% in China, compared to the U.S. federal statutory corporate tax rate of 21%. International rights to certain of the Company’s intellectual property are held by a subsidiary whose legal jurisdiction does not tax this income, resulting in a foreign effective tax rate lower than the above mentioned statutory rates.





Liquidity and Capital Resources



The Company has historically been able to generate positive cash flow from operations, which has funded its operating activities and other cash requirements and has resulted in an accumulated cash and investment balance of $863,687,000 as of March 30, 2019. The Company has established guidelines relative to credit ratings, diversification, and maturities of its investments that maintain liquidity.



The Company’s cash requirements in the first quarter of 2019 were primarily met with positive cash flows from operations. Cash requirements consisted of operating activities, the payment of dividends, and capital expenditures. Operating cash inflows included a reduction in accounts receivable from the collection of a significant amount due from a material customer in the consumer electronics industry, as well as a reduction in inventory levels. Operating cash outflows included the payment of company bonuses that were earned and accrued in 2018.



Capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2019 totaled $5,078,000 and consisted of manufacturing test equipment related to new product introductions, as well as improvements made to the Company's headquarters building in Natick, Massachusetts and various leased facilities. 



In October 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $200,000,000 of the Company's common stock. As of March 30, 2019, the Company repurchased 203,000 shares at a cost of $8,622,000 under this program, leaving a remaining balance of $191,378,000. There were no shares repurchased in the first quarter of 2019. The Company may repurchase shares under this program in future periods depending on a variety of factors, including, among other things, the impact of dilution from employee stock options, stock price, share availability, and cash requirements.



The Company’s Board of Directors declared and paid a cash dividend of $0.05 per share in the first quarter of 2019, amounting to $8,564,000. Future dividends will be declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and will depend upon such factors as the Board deems relevant including, among other things, the Company’s ability to generate positive cash flows from operations.



The Company believes that its existing cash and investment balances, together with cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to meet its operating, investing, and financing activities for the next twelve months. As of March 30, 2019, the Company had $863,687,000 in cash and investments. In addition, the Company has no long-term debt and does not anticipate needing debt financing in the near future. We believe that our strong cash position has put us in a relatively good position with respect to our longer-term liquidity needs.



New Pronouncements



Refer to Part I - Note 2 within this Form 10-Q, for a full description of recently issued accounting pronouncements including the expected dates of adoption and the expected impact on the financial position and results of operations of the Company.



ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS









