Item 2.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 

Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
This overview is intended to be read in conjunction with the more detailed information included in our financial statements that appear elsewhere in this report.
The market for machine tools is international in scope.
We have both significant foreign sales and significant foreign manufacturing operations.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019, approximately 51% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
Additionally, approximately 12% of our revenues were attributable to customers in the Asia Pacific region, where we encounter greater price pressures.
We principally sell our products through more than 170 independent agents and distributors throughout North and South America (the “Americas”), Europe and Asia.
Although some distributors carry competitive products, we are the primary line for the majority of our distributors globally.
We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consumption markets.
The vast majority of our machine tools are manufactured to our specifications primarily by our wholly-owned subsidiary in Taiwan, HML.
Machine castings and components to support HML’s production are manufactured at our wholly-owned subsidiary in Ningbo, China, NHML.
Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar.
Changes in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our operating results and consolidated financial statements as reported under U.S. GAAP.
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S.
Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements.
Our high levels of foreign manufacturing and sales also expose us to cash flow risks due to fluctuating currency exchange rates.
We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments, principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
See Note 3 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended April 30, 2018 

Sales and Service Fees.
Sales and service fees for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $70.7 million, an increase of $250,000, or less than 1%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of $3.0 million, or 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales and Service Fees by Geographic Region 



Sales in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 10%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increase in sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from a U.S. machine tool distributor acquired by Hurco in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 located in California, one of the largest machine tool markets in the U.S., and increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were relatively unchanged compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 7%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, which was largely offset by increased sales of Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany.
Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 17%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The decrease in Asian Pacific sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines in China and an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 



† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems.
Sales of computerized machine tools decreased slightly for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 9%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France.
Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 by 4% and 5%, respectively, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increases were primarily attributable to sales of aftermarket sales and service from the newly acquired distributor.
Orders.
Orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $67.2 million, a decrease of $12.7 million, or 16%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $2.6 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 3%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to decreased customer demand in the U.S. for vertical milling machines, partially offset by an increase in orders for vertical milling machines by the newly acquired distributor.
European orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 20%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 5% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year decrease in European orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines.
Asian Pacific orders for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 22%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year decrease in Asian Pacific orders was mainly the result of decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi machines in China.
Gross Profit.
Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $21.6 million, or 31% of sales, compared to $19.3 million, or 27% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected an increased mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales, as well as margin contribution from vertical milling machine sales from the newly acquired distributor.
Operating Expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $14.1 million, or 20% of sales, compared to $13.3 million, or 19% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included a favorable currency impact of $503,000 when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in year-over-year selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily related to increased salaries and benefits, increased sales and marketing expenses and operating expenses associated with the newly acquired distributor.
Operating Income.
Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $7.5 million, compared to $6.0 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increased sales mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales.
Other Income (Expense), Net.
Other income (expense) in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by $0.6 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to the net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Income Taxes.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was 32%, compared to 31% in the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year increase in the effective tax rate for the second quarter was primarily due to a shift in taxable income and loss among the various geographic regions.
Six Months Ended April 30, 2019 Compared to Six Months Ended April 30, 2018 

Sales and Service Fees.
Sales and service fees for the first six months of fiscal 2019 were $144.9 million, an increase of $6.0 million, or 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $5.7 million, or 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales and Service Fees by Geographic Region 



Sales in the Americas for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by 24%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increase in sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from the newly acquired distributor, as well as increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The decrease in European sales was primarily attributable to an unfavorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Asian Pacific sales for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The decrease in Asian Pacific sales was primarily attributable to decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines in China and an unfavorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 



 †Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems.
Sales of computerized machine tools for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in sales was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines by the newly acquired distributor.
Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 15%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France.
Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 by 10% and 6%, respectively, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increases were primarily attributable to sales of aftermarket sales and service by the newly acquired distributor.
Orders.
Orders for the first six months of fiscal 2019 were $135.2 million, a decrease of $21.6 million, or 14%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $5.2 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
Orders in the Americas for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by 9%, with such increase primarily attributable to orders for vertical milling machines by the newly acquired distributor and increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in the U.S. European orders for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 22%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 5% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year decrease in orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines, as well as a decrease in customer demand for electro-mechanical components and accessories manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary, LCM.
Asian Pacific orders for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 20%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars.
The year-over-year decrease in orders was mainly the result of decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi machines in China.
Gross Profit.
Gross profit for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was $43.8 million, or 30% of sales, compared to $39.4 million, or 28% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected an increased mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales, as well as margin contribution from the vertical milling machine sales from the newly acquired distributor.
Operating Expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the first six months of fiscal 2019 were $28.0 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $26.3 million, or 19% of sales, in the prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $1.0 million when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in year-over-year selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily related to increased salaries and benefits, increased sales and marketing expenses and operating expenses associated with the newly acquired distributor.
Operating Income.
Operating income for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was $15.8 million, compared to $13.1 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by an increased sales mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales.
Other Income (Expense), Net.
Other income (expense) in the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased by $1.0 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to the net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
Income Taxes.
The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was 29%, compared to 48% in the corresponding prior year period.
The year-over-year decrease in the effective tax rate for the first six months was primarily due to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Reform Act recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The impact of these one-time charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

At April 30, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $70.2 million, compared to $77.2 million at October 31, 2018.
Approximately 53% of the $70.2 million of cash and cash equivalents is denominated in U.S.
Dollars.
The balance is attributable to our foreign operations and is held in the local currencies of our various foreign entities subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
We do not believe that the indefinite reinvestment of these funds offshore impairs our ability to meet our domestic working capital needs.
Working capital was $205.1 million at April 30, 2019, compared to $194.6 million at October 31, 2018.
The increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in inventories and decreases in accounts payable and accrued payroll and employee benefits.
Capital expenditures of $2.3 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019 were primarily for capital improvements in existing facilities and software development costs.
We funded these expenditures with cash on hand.
See Note 10 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our credit facilities.
As of April 30, 2019, there were no borrowings under any of our credit facilities, there was $51.4 million of available borrowing capacity thereunder and we were in compliance with all covenants relating thereto.
We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets.
We continue to receive and review information on businesses and assets for potential acquisition, including intellectual property assets that are available for purchase.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Our accounting policies, which are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, require management to make significant estimates and assumptions using information available at the time the estimates are made.
These estimates and assumptions significantly affect various reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
If our future experience differs materially from these estimates and assumptions, our results of operations and financial condition would be affected.
There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the first six months of fiscal 2019.
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 

There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018.
OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing.
We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460).
As of April 30, 2019, we had 24 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $0.6 million.
The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms.
Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership and control.
The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine.
A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing.
We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Certain statements made in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the statements.
These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to: 

 ·The cyclical nature of the machine tool industry; 

 ·Uncertain economic conditions, which may adversely affect overall demand, in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific markets; 

 ·The risks of our international operations; 

 ·The limited number of our manufacturing and supply chain sources; 

 ·The effects of changes in currency exchange rates; 

 ·Our dependence on new product development; 

 ·Possible obsolescence of our technology and the need to make technological advances; 

 ·Governmental actions, initiatives and regulations, including import and export restrictions, duties and tariffs and changes to tax laws; 

 ·Breaches of our network and system security measures; 

 ·Competition with larger companies that have greater financial resources; 

 ·Increases in the prices of raw materials, especially steel and iron products; 

 ·Acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and affect operating results; 

 ·Impairment of our assets; 

 ·Negative or unforeseen tax consequences; 


 ·Our ability to integrate acquisitions; 

 ·Uncertainty concerning our ability to use tax loss carryforwards; and 

 ·The effect of the loss of members of senior management and key personnel.
We discuss these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations in Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and may update that discussion in Part II, Item 1A – Risk Factors in this report or a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q we file hereafter.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
While we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate.
We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this report.
Item 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 

We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Item 5.OTHER INFORMATION 

During the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform non-audit, tax planning services.
This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Item 6.EXHIBITS  

EXHIBIT INDEX 



SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
