Item 4.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

We conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and with participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of July 31, 2018, pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Based upon that evaluation, our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the evaluation date.
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended July 31, 2018 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

From time to time, we are involved in claims and lawsuits arising in the normal course of business.
Pursuant to applicable accounting rules, we accrue the minimum liability for each known claim when the estimated outcome is a range of possible loss and no one amount within that range is more likely than another.
We maintain insurance policies for such matters, and we record insurance recoveries when we determine such recovery to be probable.
We do not expect any of these claims, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
We believe that the ultimate resolution of claims for any losses will not exceed our insurance policy coverages.
Item 1A.
RISK FACTORS 

There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2017.
Item 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 

We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Item 5.
OTHER INFORMATION  

During the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform non-audit, tax planning services.
This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A9(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Item 6.EXHIBITS  

EXHIBIT INDEX 



SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
