fls.txt



item1.txt
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
Our products are employed around the world in a wide range of applications in the aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation industries.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
See Note 11 for further details related to this adoption, including policy and expanded disclosure requirements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.” ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying or adding certain disclosures.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware, including digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of hardware and (iv) service agreements.
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.
The decrease in the deferred revenue balance during the six months ended August 3, 2019 is primarily due to approximately $412,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2019, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
The remaining contract costs are expected to be amortized over the estimated remaining period of benefit, which we currently estimate to be approximately 7 years.
For the three and six months ended August 3, 2019, the diluted per share amounts do not reflect common equivalent shares outstanding of 11,560 and 218,466, respectively.
These outstanding common equivalent shares were not included due to their anti-dilutive effect.
There were no impairments to intangible assets during the periods ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018.
Amortization expense of $2.1 million and $2.0 million related to the above acquired intangibles has been included in the condensed consolidated statement of income for the six months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018, respectively.
Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.


item2.txt
Product Identification (PI) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.
Three Months Ended August 3, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended July 28, 2018 Revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $33.5 million, representing a slight decrease compared to the previous year second quarter revenue of $33.8 million.
International revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $12.9 million, a 7.3% decrease over the previous year second quarter, and represents 38.3% of AstroNova’s second quarter revenue.
Current quarter other expense primarily includes interest expense on debt and the revolving line of credit of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million, which were partially offset by $0.1 million of other income.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year’s second quarter was $1.2 million or $0.17 per diluted share.
Revenue through domestic channels for the first half of the current year was $42.6 million, an increase of 8.7% from prior year domestic revenue of $39.2 million.
The current year’s first six months international revenue reflected an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.9 million.
The Company’s gross profit margin of 37.6% in the current year reflects a decrease from the prior year’s first six months gross profit margin of 39.1%.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
Return on revenue was 3.8% for the first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.1% for the first six months of fiscal 2019.
Specifically, this includes inkjet supply revenue, which experienced double digit growth as compared to the same period in the prior year.
The current year increase is primarily attributable to an increase in supplies revenue of 11.4% due to increased demand for ink jet supplies, as well as label and tag products.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


