fls.txt



item1.txt
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
Our products are employed around the world in a wide range of applications in the aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation industries.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
The accounting polices used in preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q are the same as those used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended January 31, 2019, except for the change resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, “Leases (“Topic 842”), as provided below.
On February 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02 using the modified retrospective transition method, which requires that we recognize leases differently pre- and post-adoption.
See “Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements—Leases” below for more information.
Operating Right-of-use (“ROU”) assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company’s obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets include any lease pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred when appropriate.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such option.
For our lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, we generally account for each component separately.
Also upon adoption, the Company elected the package of practical expedients, which, include not reassessing 1) whether any expired or existing contracts contain leases, 2) lease classifications of expired or existing leases, and 3) initial direct costs, if any, for existing leases.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.” ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying or adding certain disclosures.
The provisions of ASU 2018-13 relating to changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware, including digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of hardware and (iv) service agreements.
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.


item2.txt
Product Identification (PI) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.
Current year first quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.6 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 39.4% reflects a 0.9 percentage point increase from prior year first quarter gross profit margin of 38.5%.
Other expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 consists primarily of interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million.
Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 18.2% in the first quarter of the current year, with revenue of $23.6 million compared to $20.0 million in the same period of the prior year.
Also contributing to the increase in revenue for the current quarter was the 6.1% increase in hardware revenue as a result of the Company’s new five-color digital label printer, as well as an increase in sales of monochromatic printers.
Hardware revenue increases were slightly tempered by lower sales of the Company’s other digital color printers within the product group.
Product Identification’s current quarter segment operating profit was $2.9 million, reflecting a profit margin of 12.2%.
Generally, our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from operating activities and borrowings.
In fiscal 2018, the Company and the Company’s wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS, entered into a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


