fls.txt



item1.txt
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
AstroNova, Inc. products are employed around the world in a wide range of aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation applications.
Products sold under the QuickLabel and TrojanLabel brands are used in industrial and commercial product packaging, branding and labeling applications to digitally print custom labels and corresponding visual content in house.
The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, which includes identifying contracts with customers, identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation and recognizing revenue when the entity satisfies each performance obligation.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligation arrangements as well as the pattern of delivery for those services.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.
The transfer of control generally occurs at one point in time, upon shipment, when title and risk of loss pass to the customer.
Returns and customer credits are infrequent and are recorded as a reduction to revenue.
The majority of our hardware products contain embedded operating systems and data management software which is included in the purchase price of the equipment.
Shipping and handling activities that occur after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as fulfillment activities rather than performance obligations, as allowed under a practical expedient provided by ASC Topic 606.
These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9% of revenue for the nine months ended October 27, 2018.
We also provide service agreements on certain of our Product Identification equipment.
Service agreements are purchased separately from the equipment and provide for the right to obtain service and maintenance on the equipment for a period of typically one to two years.
We generally provide warranties for our products.
On occasion, customers request a warranty period longer than our standard warranty.
Credit is extended based upon an evaluation of the customer’s financial condition.
Accounts receivable are stated at their estimated net realizable value.


item2.txt
Product Identification—offers product identification and digital label printer hardware, software, servicing contracts, parts and supplies.
Supplies includes the media (substrate) and ink, toner, and thermal transfer ribbon used with the Company’s printers and the various parts used to maintain the printers.
Three Months Ended October 27, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended October 28, 2017 Revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $34.2 million, representing an 18.9% increase compared to the previous year third quarter revenue of $28.8 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year third quarter was $21.5 million, an increase of 18.9% over the prior year’s third quarter.
Current year third quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.2 million.
The Company reported net income of $1.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share for the third quarter of the current year, consistent with net income for the prior year third quarter of $1.4 million or $0.21 per diluted share.
The Company’s current year gross profit margin of 39.6% reflects an increase from the prior year’s first nine months gross profit margin of 38.9%.
Other expense for fiscal 2018 included interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.2 million, partially offset by $0.3 million of investment and other income received from the settlement of a legal matter related to patent infringement.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


