fls.txt



item1.txt
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
Our products are employed around the world in a wide range of applications in the aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation industries.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
See Note 11 for further details related to this adoption, including policy and expanded disclosure requirements.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware, including digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of hardware and (iv) service agreements.
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term, which was estimated to be approximately 10 years.
During the third quarter of the current year the Company recognized additional direct costs of $121,000.
For the three and nine months ended October 27, 2018, the diluted per share amounts do not reflect common equivalent shares outstanding of 228,600 and 333,175, respectively.
These outstanding common equivalent shares were not included due to their anti-dilutive effect.
Amortization expense of $3.2 million and $3.1 million related to the above acquired intangibles has been included in the condensed consolidated statement of income for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018, respectively.
Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.
Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Kroner.
Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
At November 2, 2019, there was $3.5 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility.
For additional information on the amendment and the resulting changes to the terms of the agreement, see Note 17 – Subsequent Events.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Product Identification (“PI”) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.
The decrease in supplies revenue for the current quarter was slightly offset by an increase in TrojanLabel product supplies revenue within the Product Identification segment.
Current quarter other expense primarily includes interest expense on the Company’s debt and revolving line of credit of $0.2 million.
This compares to the prior year’s third quarter tax provision of $0.4 million, which reflected a benefit of $0.1 million related to windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock and an effective tax rate of 22.3%.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year’s third quarter was $1.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share.
The current year’s first nine months of international revenue reflected an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $1.2 million.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
Return on revenue was 3.0% for the first nine months of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.4% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Product Identification’s current quarter segment operating profit was $1.9 million, reflecting a profit margin of 8.6%.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


