fls.txt



item1.txt
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
AstroNova, Inc. products are employed around the world in a wide range of aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation applications.
Products sold under the QuickLabel and TrojanLabel brands are used in industrial and commercial product packaging, branding and labeling applications to digitally print custom labels and corresponding visual content in house.
The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats.
In the aerospace market, the Company has a long history of using its data visualization technologies to provide high-resolution light-weight flight deck and cabin printers.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
On February 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification “ASC” Topic 606),” which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligation arrangements as well as the pattern of delivery for those services.
The transfer of control generally occurs at one point in time, upon shipment, when title and risk of loss pass to the customer.
Returns and customer credits are infrequent and are recorded as a reduction to revenue.
The majority of our hardware products contain embedded operating systems and data management software which is included in the purchase price of the equipment.
Shipping and handling activities that occur after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as fulfillment activities rather than performance obligations, as allowed under a practical expedient provided by ASC Topic 606.
These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9.0% of revenue for the six months ended July 28, 2018.
We also provide service agreements on certain of our Product Identification equipment.
Service agreements are purchased separately from the equipment and provide for the right to obtain service and maintenance on the equipment for a period of typically one to two years.


item2.txt
Product Identification—offers product identification and digital label printer hardware, software, servicing contracts, parts and supplies.
Supplies includes the media (substrate) and ink, toner, and thermal transfer ribbon used with the Company’s printers and the various parts used to maintain the printers.
Current year second quarter international revenue includes a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.3 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 39.6% reflects a 2.3 percentage point increase from the prior year second quarter gross profit margin of 37.3%.
Other income for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 includes foreign exchange gain of $59 thousand and investment income of $68 thousand, offset by interest expense on debt of $82 thousand and other expense of $30 thousand.
International revenue for the first six months of the current year was $26.1 million, a 37.4% increase from the previous year.
Supplies revenue in the first half of the current year was $34.6 million, representing an 11.3% increase over the prior year’s first six months revenue of $31.1 million.
The current year increase in supplies revenue is due primarily to the increase in digital color printer supplies product revenue, as well as label and tag revenue in the Product Identification segment.
The prior year’s first six months income tax expense was $0.4 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.


