fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company's contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract.
Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer.
Circuit subsequently ruled that the district court judgment should instead reflect the currency in which it was originally awarded.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company determined that the carrying amount of a real estate property may not be recoverable and as a result recorded an impairment charge of $7 million, which was recorded within Corporate.
Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately.
Apple has filed an appeal of the judgment in the Apple I case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
The Company recognizes revenue on its services contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as the Company performs the promised services.
Asset information by segment is not a key measure of performance used by the CODM.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and March 31, 2017, the Company made $15 million and $20 million, respectively, of required quarterly payments on its senior secured term loans.
The increase in "Contract liabilities- current" was primarily due to advance payments received on a certain contract.
The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of March 30, 2018.
The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s revenue recognition policy as revenues on the substantial majority of the Company's contracts continue to be recognized over time.
The resulting changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are fully offset by the changes in the fair value of the underlying debt (the hedged item) (See "Note 14–Debt").
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2018-02, the Company's policy to release income tax effects in accumulated other comprehensive income is to be consistent with the underlying book method.
The margin for the Term Loan A loans ranges from 1.50% to 2.00%, depending on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio, and is computed on a quarterly basis.
The Company manages its risk to changes in interest rates through the use of derivative instruments.
Additionally, the Company separately presents the costs associated with corporate functions as Corporate.
In consideration of this deferment, Leidos received certain concessions and releases from obligations under the original transaction documents.
Circuit subsequently ruled that the district court judgment should instead reflect the currency in which it was originally awarded.


item2.txt
Certain of our cost-plus and fixed-price contracts contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that may either increase or decrease the transaction price.
We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to performance guarantees on contracts and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and payment bonds as described in "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies.
For a discussion of these items, see "Note 20–Contingencies" and "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Total backlog at March 30, 2018 included $88 million of benefit due to the exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the British pound.
The budget legislation passed earlier in the year suspended budget caps and included a two-year budget agreement that provides $300 billion in sequestration relief for defense and non-defense spending.
The decrease in operating income for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher profit write-ups in the prior year quarter, partially offset by lower intangible asset amortization.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 6.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Other Information.


