fls.txt



item1.txt
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88%.
See "Note 22–Subsequent Events" regarding the additional amendment entered into in July 2018.
On July 24, 2015, the Company completed the sale of its equity interests in Plainfield Renewable Energy Holdings LLC ("Plainfield") for an aggregate consideration of $102 million, subject to certain adjustments and contingent earn-out payments.
Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts, including indirect costs, are subject to audit and adjustment by the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA") (see "Note 20–Contingencies").
The impact on diluted EPS attributable to Leidos common stockholders is calculated using the Company's statutory tax rate.
The interest rate swaps were accounted for as a fair value hedge of the Notes and qualified for the shortcut method of hedge accounting, which allows for the assumption of no ineffectiveness reported in earnings.
The Company manages its risk to changes in interest rates through the use of derivative instruments.
The sale is expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 at which time the leaseback term will begin.
The sale is expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 at which time the leaseback term will begin.
In January 2018, the Company entered into negotiations with the equity owners of Plainfield regarding the Plainfield Recapitalization Plan ("Plan").
However, the Company was able to make reasonable estimates and has recorded provisional amounts.
Contract assets include unbilled receivables, which is the amount of revenue recognized that exceeds the amount billed to the customer, where right to payment is not just subject to the passage of time.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
As a result, the margin on Term Loan B was reduced by 25 basis points to 1.75%.
The Company defines its reportable segments based on the way the chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), currently its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, manages the operations of the Company for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance.
These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
The Greek government disputed the contract balance owed to the Company and has not paid the Company's final invoice.
Separately, the Greek government has sought to annul the award through separate litigation in the Greek courts, and such a challenge is currently pending.
In March 2018, Leidos amended the terms of its senior secured $1.1 billion Term Loan B, due August 2023.


item2.txt
In such cases, we recognize revenue on a net basis.
This was partially offset by a reduction in tax withholdings related to the vesting of stock awards.
In such cases, we recognize revenue on a net basis.
This share repurchase authorization replaces the previous share repurchase authorization announced in December 2013.
Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer.
We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to performance guarantees on contracts and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and payment bonds as described in "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Net cash used in investing activities increased $4 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to proceeds from the sale of a building in the prior year quarter partially offset by lower purchases of property, plant and equipment.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 6.


part2.txt
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.


