fls.txt



item1.txt
Remaining performance obligations represent the expected value of exercised contracts, both funded and unfunded, less revenue recognized to date.
The Company is a party to an arbitration proceeding that is expected to commence in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 involving a claim by Lockheed Martin for indemnification for $56 million in taxes attributable to deferred revenue recognized as a result of the Transactions.
On November 10, 2015, MSA received a final decision by the Department of Energy ("DoE") contracting officer for the Mission Support Contract concluding that certain payments to MSA by the DoE for the performance of IT services by Lockheed Martin Services, Inc. ("LMSI") under a subcontract to MSA constituted alleged affiliate fees in violation of the FAR.
Government spending levels for the DoD may be impacted by spending priorities as a result of competing demands for federal funds.
The restricted cash is recorded within "Inventory, prepaid expenses and other current assets" in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Separately, the Greek government has sought to annul the award through separate litigation in the Greek courts, and such a challenge is currently pending.
The Company also elected to adopt the right-to-invoice practical expedient on certain cost-reimbursable contracts where the Company recognizes revenues as it is contractually able to invoice the customer based on the control transferred to the customer.
For the quarter ended September 28, 2018, the effective tax rate was 13.5% compared to 31.9% for the quarter ended September 29, 2017.
As a result, the margin on Term Loan B was reduced by 25 basis points to 1.75%.
Based on the arguments advanced to date, the Company believes that the claim appears to be without merit and intends to vigorously defend itself in arbitration.
Reclassifications from unrecognized gain on derivative instruments are recorded in "Interest expense, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income.
For the nine months ended September 28, 2018, the effective tax rate was 14.3% compared to 30.1% for the nine months ended September 29, 2017.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, pursuant to the resolution of certain government accounting matters, including audits by the DCAA, the Company recorded a net reduction of $8 million and $14 million, respectively, to its accrued liabilities.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88%.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
The amendments also extended the maturity date of Term Loan B by two years to August 2025 and delayed the scheduled increase in quarterly principal payments for Term Loan A by one year to March 2021.
Contract assets include unbilled receivables, which is the amount of revenue recognized that exceeds the amount billed to the customer, where right to payment is not just subject to the passage of time.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.


item2.txt
Substantially all of our contracts do not contain a significant financing component, which would require an adjustment to the transaction price of the contract.
In such cases, we recognize revenue on a net basis.
The standalone selling price of our performance obligations is generally based on an expected cost-plus margin approach, in accordance with the FAR.
Total backlog at September 28, 2018 included an adverse impact of $94 million when compared to total backlog at December 29, 2017, due to exchange rate movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
Total backlog at September 28, 2018 included an adverse impact of $94 million when compared to total backlog at December 29, 2017, due to exchange rate movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
We recognize revenue on our service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as we perform the promised services.
The decrease in revenues for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts and a net decrease in program volumes, partially offset by new awards, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates due to the movement of the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound and higher net profit write-ups in the current year.
In September 2018, Congress passed and the President signed a second consolidated appropriations bill funding the Departments of Defense, Labor and Health and Human Services for the full GFY 2019.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
James C. Reagan
None.


