fls.txt



item1.txt
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia (see "Note 4–Leases").
In September 2018, the Company terminated its existing interest rate swaps.
An additional sum of over $93 million for costs and pre-judgment interest was subsequently agreed upon pursuant to a court order, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple II case to over $595 million.
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive monthly variable interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR rate and will pay interest at a fixed rate.
This activity included $27 million and $15 million of required quarterly principal payments on its senior secured term loans during the quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company also has outstanding surety bonds with net exposure of $46 million, principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds on the Company's contracts.
The term of the lease is expected to end during fiscal 2020.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, which applies a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
At March 29, 2019, and December 28, 2018, the Company included $66 million and $56 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
The fair value of the Notes is stated at an amount that reflects changes in the six-month LIBOR rate subsequent to the inception of the interest rate swaps through the reporting date.
The Company's operations and reportable segments are organized around the markets served and the nature of the products and services provided to customers in those markets.
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
The Company's cash equivalents are primarily comprised of investments in several large institutional money market funds and bank deposits, with original maturity of three months or less.
The Company also recorded a $48 million increase in retained earnings due to the cumulative effect of recognizing the gain, net of taxes, related to the sale of the San Diego properties (see "Note 10–Property, Plant and Equipment").
The majority of the Company's revenues are generated from U.S. government contracts, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor to other contractors.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement date based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
The Company has not made fair value option elections on any of its financial assets and liabilities.
The Company currently expects construction to be completed and to take occupancy of the building by April 1, 2020, at which point the Company's lease agreements for its current corporate headquarters will terminate.
These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.


item2.txt
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 8% of total revenues for the three months ended March 29, 2019.
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 8% of total revenues for the three months ended March 29, 2019.
The increase in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three months ended March 29, 2019, was 6.1%, as compared to an actual increase in revenues of 5.5%.
We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to performance guarantees on contracts and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds as described in "Note 19–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
For the three months ended March 29, 2019, our effective tax rate was 23.2% compared to 18.4% for the three months ended March 30, 2018.
The increase in operating income for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily due to new awards and lower amortization of intangibles, partially offset by higher net profit write-ups in the prior year quarter and the timing of material deliveries on certain contracts.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Exhibits.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
None.


