fls.txt
However, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made.


item1.txt
In this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, Mesa Laboratories, Inc., a Colorado corporation, together with its subsidiaries is collectively referred to as “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa.” We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
This quarterly report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018.
Our debt has a variable interest rate, so the carrying amount approximates fair value because interest rates on these instruments approximate the interest rate on debt with similar terms available to us.
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to present financial statement users with the ability to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We expect to adopt the standard using the optional transition method, which will allow us to apply the standard as of the effective date, therefore we will not apply changes to comparative periods presented in our financial statements.
In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Release No.
33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements.
The principal change to our financial reporting is the inclusion of the annual disclosure requirement of changes in stockholders’ equity in Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X to interim periods.
Effective April 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all related amendments (referred to collectively hereinafter as “ASU 606”) to all contracts on a modified retrospective basis.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.
“Revenue Recognition.” In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
The amendments also require any provisional amounts or subsequent adjustments to be included in net income from continuing operations.


item2.txt
Management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
We are organized into four divisions across nine physical locations.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
Sterilization and disinfection control products and most products in our Cold Chain Packaging Division are disposable and are used on a routine basis, thus product sales are less sensitive to general economic conditions.
Gross profit is affected by our product mix, manufacturing efficiencies, and price competition.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we completed a business combination (the “Point Six Wireless Acquisition”) whereby we acquired substantially all of the assets (other than current assets) and certain liabilities of Point Six Wireless, LLC’s continuous monitoring business.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation and sale of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility, moving those operations into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations), which was completed as of December 31, 2018.
We are hopeful that we will have enhanced or new products and services available for sale in the coming year.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we performed a financial analysis of the Cold Chain Packaging Division, which revealed that gross profits for the segment continue to decline, primarily due to rising commodity costs.
Instrument revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017 were impacted by a slower than expected adoption of an updated medical product and the discontinuation of its predecessor product.
Sterilization and Disinfection Control gross profit margin percentage increased for both the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 primarily as a result of $150 and $503 of moving expenses related to the Bozeman facility that were incurred during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.


