fls.txt
However, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made.


item1.txt
In this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, Mesa Laboratories, Inc., a Colorado corporation, together with its subsidiaries is collectively referred to as “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa.” We are organized into four divisions across eight physical locations.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
This quarterly report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018.
The pronouncement requires lessees to recognize a liability for lease obligations, which represents the discounted obligation to make future minimum lease payments, and a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to present financial statement users with the ability to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We have initiated our plan for the adoption and implementation of this new accounting standard, including assessing our lease arrangements, evaluating practical expedients, and making necessary changes to our accounting policies, processes, and internal controls over financial reporting.
Effective April 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and all related amendments (referred to collectively hereinafter as “ASU 606”) on a modified retrospective basis.
The adoption did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, statements of income, or cash flows.
The primary impact of adoption was the enhancement of disclosures to provide additional clarity regarding how revenue is earned and recognized, and to show revenues at a more disaggregated level, included in Note 2.
The amendments also require any provisional amounts or subsequent adjustments to be included in net income from continuing operations.
Additionally, this ASU discusses required disclosures that an entity must make with regard to the TCJA.
We have adopted this standard and will continue to evaluate indicators that may give rise to a change in our tax provision as a result of the TCJA.
Refer to Note 7 for additional information on the TCJA.


item2.txt
Management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made.
However, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements.
We are organized into four divisions across eight physical locations.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
Our revenues come from three main sources – hardware, consumables, and services.
Gross profit is affected by our product mix, manufacturing efficiencies, and price competition.
Selling expense is driven primarily by labor costs, including salaries and commissions.
The markets for sterilization and disinfection control products remain strong, as the disposable nature of these products makes them less sensitive to general economic conditions.
Cold Chain Packaging revenues increased by 90 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to efficiency gains.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
“Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 1.
“Financial Statements.” for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved.


