Financial Statements   
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 
year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed 
consolidated financial statements.   
Table of Contents 
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s  
Annual Report on Form 
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed 
consolidated financial statements.   
Table of Contents 
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s  
Annual Report on Form 
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed 
 consolidated financial statements.   
Table of Contents 
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements. 
Table of Contents 
The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s  
Annual Report on Form 
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, are an integral part of the condensed 
consolidated financial statements.   
Table of Contents 
semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems;   
industrial automation (“Industrial Automation”) products;   
wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.   
Basis of Presentation  
10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.  
Preparation of Financial Statements and Use of Estimates  
Teradyne holds an investment in a private company 
Table of Contents  
Leases  
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 
“Leases (Topic 842)” (“Topic 842”), which requires a lessee to record a 
right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for operating leases with terms longer than twelve months. Teradyne adopted this standard and the related amendments (collectively “ASC 842”) on January 1, 2019 and utilized the modified retrospective approach provided by ASU 
Improvements,” that allowed for a cumulative effect adjustment in the period of adoption. Under this method of adoption, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements has not been revised and continues to be reported under the previously applicable lease accounting guidance (ASC 840). Teradyne also utilized the package of practical expedients permitted 
 resulted in recording ROU assets and lease liabilities of approximately $50.1
 million, respectively. Operating lease liabilities were calculated using the discount rate on January 1
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when Teradyne has the right to control the use of an identified asset. Teradyne determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for use by Teradyne. As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne does not have material leases that have not yet commenced.   
Teradyne determines if the lease is operating or finance at the lease commencement date based upon the terms of the lease and the nature of the asset. The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.  
For leases commencing after January 1, 2019, the lease liability is measured at the present value of future lease payments, discounted using the discount rate for the lease at the commencement date. As Teradyne is typically unable to determine the implicit rate, Teradyne uses an incremental borrowing rate based on the lease term and economic environment at commencement date. Teradyne initially measures payments based on an index by using the applicable rate at lease commencement. Variable payments that do not depend on an index are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred. The ROU asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability, adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments, and reduced by any lease incentives.  
Teradyne’s contracts often include 
non-lease components such as common area maintenance. Teradyne elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and 
On January 26, 2017, the FASB issued ASU 
“Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic
Table of Contents  
Lemsys SA  
Mobile Industrial Robots  
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots Aps (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.  
The total purchase price of $197.8 million included $145.2 million of cash paid and $52.6 million of contingent consideration measured at fair value. The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020. The contingent consideration related to revenue for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 in the amount of $30.8 million was paid in March 2019. The remaining maximum contingent consideration that could be paid is $84.1 million.   
Table of Contents  
Pro forma results for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $2.3 million and $2.9 million, respectively,
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots. The Energid acquisition   
Table of Contents 
was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition. As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million which is deductible for tax purposes, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
Revenue from Contracts with Customers” were $562.5 million and $1,054.9 million, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne also recognized $1.7 million and $3.4 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606. 
Revenue from Contracts with Customers” were $523.3 million and $1,006.5 million, respectively. 
$7.9 million, respectively, of revenues from leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.  
Table of Contents   
Table of Contents   
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne recognized $13.3 million and $33.4 million, respectively, that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balances. During the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne recognized 
 million, respectively, that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balances. This revenue primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and post contract support. Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation. Teradyne expects to recognize 72
% in 
 years, and the remainder thereafter. 
Accounts Receivable  
Teradyne sells certain trade accounts receivables on a 
non-recourse basis to third-party financial institutions pursuant to factoring agreements. Teradyne accounts for these transactions as sales of receivables and presents cash proceeds as a cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Total trade accounts receivable sold under the factoring agreements were $82.1 million and $8.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, respectively. Factoring fees for the sales of receivables were recorded in interest expense and were not material.  
Inventory reserves at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $102.6 million and $100.8 million, respectively.   
Cash Equivalents  
Teradyne considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents.     
Marketable Securities  
Teradyne’s 
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3 financial instruments.  
Realized gains recorded in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Realized losses recorded in the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $0.1 million.   
Table of Contents   
Realized gains recorded in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were $0.1 million and $0.4 million, respectively. Realized losses recorded in the six months ended July 1, 2018 were $1.5 million. Realized gains are included in interest income and realized losses are included in interest expense.  
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
Table of Contents  
earn-out  periods end on December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020.
The carrying value represents the bifurcated debt component only, while the fair value is based on quoted market prices for the convertible note, which includes the equity conversion features.   
The fair values of accounts receivable, net and accounts payable approximate the carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.   
Table of Contents    
As of June 30, 2019, the fair market value of investments in 
available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses totaled $38.3 million. Of this value, $22.7 million had unrealized losses of $0.4 million for greater than one year and $15.6 million had unrealized losses of $0.1 million for less than one year. 
As of December 31, 2018, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $192.0 million. Of this value, $28.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million greater than one year and $163.5 million had unrealized losses of $1.4 million for less than one year.  
Table of Contents  
The contractual maturities of investments in 
available-for-sale securities held at June 30, 2019 exclude $3.3 million of debt mutual funds as they do not have a contractual maturity date.  
Derivatives      
The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $143.3 million and $163.1 million, respectively.  
Table of Contents    
Teradyne has facility and auto leases, which are accounted for as operating leases. Teradyne’s facility leases are primarily used for administrative functions, research and development, manufacturing, and storage and distribution. Remaining lease terms range from less than one year to ten years.  
At June 30, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rate for operating leases was 4.7 years and 5.2%, respectively.   
As of December 31, 2018, future 
, Teradyne completed a private offering of $460.0
 million aggregate principal amount of 1.25
 million of which was used to pay the net cost of the convertible note hedge transactions and $50.1
 million of which was used to repurchase 2.0
, unless earlier repurchased or converted. The Notes bear interest from December 12
 at a rate of 1.25
% per year payable semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year
, beginning on 
. The Notes will be convertible at the option of the noteholders at any time 
prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding 
 during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31
 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30
 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than 130
 during the five
 business day period after any five
 consecutive trading day period (the “measurement period”) in which the trading price (as defined in the Indenture) per $1,000
 principal amount of Notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98
 upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On or after September 15
 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders
, the conversion price was approximately $31.70
Separately and concurrent with the pricing of the Notes, Teradyne entered into warrant transactions with the Option Counterparties (the “Warrant Transactions”) in which it sold 
Teradyne considered the guidance of ASC 
“Derivatives and Hedging—Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity,”
Teradyne assessed whether the convertible note hedge should be classified as equity under ASC 
 In the Note Hedge Transactions contract the settlement terms permit net cash settlement or net share settlement, at the option of Teradyne. Therefore, the criteria as set forth in ASC 
 there is no requirement to net cash settle the convertible note hedge for failure to make timely filings with the SEC; (3)
 in the case of termination, the convertible note hedge is settled in the same 
Table of Contents 
consideration as the holders of the underlying stock; (4) the counterparty does not have rights that rank higher than those of a shareholder of the stock underlying the convertible note hedge; and (5) there is no requirement to post collateral. Based on its analysis of those criteria, Teradyne concluded that the convertible note hedge should be recorded in equity and no further adjustment should be made in future periods to adjust the value of the convertible note hedge. 
Teradyne analyzed the Warrant Transactions under ASC 815-40, 
The provisions of ASC 470-20, “
Debt with Conversion and Other Options,
” are applicable to the Notes. ASC 470-20 requires Teradyne to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion feature) components of the Notes in a manner that reflects Teradyne’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the date of issuance when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. Teradyne allocated $100.8 million of the $460.0 million principal amount of the Notes to the equity component, which represents a discount to the debt and will be amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method through December 2023. Accordingly, Teradyne’s effective annual interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 5.0%. The Notes are classified as long-term 
debt in the balance sheet based on their 
 maturity date. Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2
 million are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the seven year
As of June 30, 2019, the remaining unamortized discount was $72.8 million, which will be amortized over 4.5 years using the effective interest rate method. The carrying amount of the equity component was $100.8 million. As of June 30, 2019, the 
Revolving Credit Facility  
On June 27, 2019
, which Teradyne entered into with Barclays Bank PLC, on April 27, 2015. The terminated credit agreement
 provided for a five-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of up to 
Table of Contents    
Prepayments consist of the following 
one-year
Table of Contents 
Time-based restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years
. Restricted stock unit awards granted to 
% of the award vesting on the earlier of (a) the first anniversary of the grant date or (b) the date of the following year’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Teradyne expenses the cost of the restricted stock unit awards subject to time-based vesting, which is determined to be the fair market value of the shares at the date of grant, ratably over the period during which the restrictions lapse.
 TSR performance is measured against the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Composite Index. The final number of TSR PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200
% of the target shares capped at four times the grant date value. The TSR PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date. The TSR PRSUs are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The number of units expected to be earned, based upon the achievement of the TSR market condition, is factored into the grant date Monte Carlo valuation. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three-year service period or the period from the grant to the date described in the retirement provisions below. Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of the grant. Compensation expense is recognized regardless of the eventual number of units that are earned based upon the market condition, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period. Compensation expense is reversed if at any time during the three-year service period the executive officer is no longer an employee, subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below. 
non-recurring gains and charges. The final number of PBIT PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares. The PBIT PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below. Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date  
Table of Contents  
will be recognized in full on the date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized based on the number of units that are earned based upon the three-year Teradyne PBIT as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below. 
If a PRSU recipient’s employment ends prior to the determination of the performance percentage due to (1) permanent disability or death or (2) retirement or termination other than for cause, after attaining both at least age sixty and at least ten years of service, then all or a portion of the recipient’s PRSUs (based on the actual performance percentage achieved on the determination date) will vest on the date the performance percentage is determined. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, no PRSUs will vest if the executive officer is no longer an employee at the end of the three-year period. 
 for the 2018 grant. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million, respectively, of PBIT PRSUs with a grant date fair value of $36.88 and $46.62, respectively.  
During the six months ended June 
, Teradyne granted 0.7 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $36.10
 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to non-employee directors at a weighted average grant date fair value of $
million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of 
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.6 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $46.38
, 0.1 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to 
 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $12.17
Restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years. Stock options to purchase Teradyne’s common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the grant date vest in equal annual installments over four years from the grant date and have a maximum term of seven years.  
Table of Contents     
Table of Contents  
 (a) 
 (b) 
 (a) 
Table of Contents 
Goodwill  
Teradyne performs its annual goodwill impairment test as required under the provisions of ASC 
“Intangibles—Goodwill and Other”
 on December 31 of each fiscal year unless interim indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill is considered impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value.  
Intangible Assets  
Table of Contents   
Aggregate intangible asset amortization expense was $10.1 million and $20.7 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and $9.8 million and $17.5 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018.    
Table of Contents 
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.2 million and 0.4 million of stock options, respectively because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.  
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.6 million and 0.5 million shares, respectively of restricted stock units because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.   
During the three months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne recorded an 
million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the MiR contingent consideration liability, partially offset by 
million recorded for severance charges primarily in Semiconductor Test and 
million of acquisition related compensation and expenses. 
During the three months ended July 1, 2018, Teradyne recorded a
million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, partially offset by a 
million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne recorded an 
million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the MiR contingent consideration liability, partially offset by 
million of acquisition related compensation and expenses and 
million recorded for severance charges primarily in Semiconductor Test. 
Defined Benefit Pension Plans  
In the six months ended June 30, 2019, Teradyne contributed $1.3 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan and $0.4 million to certain qualified pension plans for 
Table of Contents 
Postretirement Benefit Plan  
In addition to receiving pension benefits, Teradyne employees in the United States who meet early retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in Teradyne’s Welfare Plan, which includes medical and dental benefits up to age 65
. Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees’ survivors and are available to all retirees. Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.  
Table of Contents 
Purchase Commitments  
As of June 30, 2019, Teradyne had entered into purchase commitments for certain components and materials. The purchase commitments covered by the agreements aggregate to approximately $306.9 million, of which $300.7 million is for less than one year.  
Legal Claims  
Table of Contents   
Table of Contents   
Table of Contents 
Stock Repurchase Program  
In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. Teradyne intends to repurchase $500 million in 2019.  
Dividend  
Table of Contents 
In January 2019 and May 2019, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $15.4 million and $31.0 million, respectively. 
In January 2018 and May 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 were $17.1 million and $34.7 million, respectively. 
While Teradyne declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, it may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future. Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of Teradyne’s Board of Directors, which will consider, among other things, Teradyne’s earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.  
July 17, 2019 (the “Retirement Date”). As previously announced, Sanjay Mehta succeeded Mr. Beecher as Teradyne’s Chief Financial Officer effective April 25, 2019. 
In connection with the retirement, Teradyne entered into an agreement on 
 with Mr. Beecher (the “Retirement Agreement”). In the Retirement Agreement, Mr. Beecher agreed to be bound by non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions through January 31, 2023 (the “Non-Competition Period”). The Retirement Agreement also includes additional, standard terms and conditions relating to Mr. Beecher’s separation from Teradyne. 
Under the Retirement Agreement, Mr. Beecher’s unvested time-based restricted stock units and stock options granted prior to 2019 will continue to vest in accordance with their terms; unvested time-based restricted stock units and stock options granted in 2019 prior to the Retirement Date will continue to vest during the Non-Competition Period in a pro-rated amount based on the number of days that Mr. Beecher was employed during 2019; 
unvested, performance-based restricted stock units awarded prior to 2019 will continue to vest in accordance with their terms; unvested, performance-based restricted stock units awarded in 2019 will vest on the date the amount of shares underlying the performance-based restricted stock units are determined in a pro-rated amount of shares based on the number of days that Mr. Beecher was employed during the 365 calendar day period following the grant date; vested options or options that vest during the Non-Competition Period may be exercised for the remainder of the applicable option term. 
Teradyne will record a stock based compensation expense of approximately $2.5 million in the third quarter of 2019 related to the Retirement Agreement.  
 Item 1A:  
In addition to other information set forth in this Form 
10-K remain applicable to our business. 
Table of Contents 
