The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.  
Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of ASC 605, “Revenue Recognition” (“ASC 605”), which is also referred to herein as “Legacy GAAP” or the “previous guidance.” Teradyne recorded a net increase  
In accordance with ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer. Teradyne’s determination of revenue is dependent upon a five step process outlined below.  
Teradyne accounts for a contract with a customer when there is written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection.  
Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price. Teradyne does not have material variable consideration which could impact the stated purchase price agreed to by Teradyne and the customer.  
Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation. Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation. If standalone transactions are not available, Teradyne will estimate the standalone selling price through market assessments or cost plus a reasonable margin analysis. Any discounts from standalone selling price are spread proportionally to each performance obligation.  
In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition. If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered. Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period. Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer. For transactions which do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control. Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms. Typically acceptance of Teradyne’s products and services is a formality as Teradyne delivers similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications. In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, Teradyne will defer revenue recognition until customer acceptance.  
Revenue recognized in accordance with ASC 606 was $483.2 million for the period ended April 1, 2018. Teradyne also recognized $4.3 million in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.  
The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and timing of revenue recognition.  
Customers have the option to purchase an extended warranty, which extends the warranty period for systems and robots beyond the one year standard warranty. The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation which meets the criteria for over time recognition. The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.  
Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases. The training and support allow the customer to use Teradyne’s systems efficiently and  
 effectively. Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each. Both are recognized using an input method of hours consumed as this best depicts the transfer of services to the customer.  
Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty. These services include telephone support, bug fixes, and when-and-if available upgrades. Standalone selling price for PCS is not directly observable as Teradyne does not sell these services separately. Teradyne has estimated the standalone selling price for these services based on adjusted market assessments. Revenue for PCS is recognized ratably over the performance period.  
Teradyne does not allow customer returns or provide refunds to customers for any products or services.  
The following table provides information about contract liabilities. Teradyne does not have material contract assets on the balance sheet.  
The amount of revenue recognized during the quarter ended April 1, 2018 that was included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balance at January 1, 2018 was $21.8 million and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS. Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation. Customers typically pay for these services net 30 to 60 days from the date that transfer of control of the associated system or product occurs.  
Teradyne does not have material remaining performance obligations from contracts with an original expected duration of greater than one year.  
Teradyne makes no significant judgements in determining the amount or timing of revenue recognition.  
The following tables summarize the impact of ASC 606 to Teradyne’s consolidated financial statements. Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606. Under Legacy GAAP Teradyne did not recognize revenue prior to acceptance if payment, title, or risk of loss was tied to acceptance. Under ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenue prior to receipt of acceptance if acceptance is deemed a formality.  
 Cost.” Teradyne retrospectively adopted the new accounting guidance on presentation of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs in the first quarter of 2018. This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs. The non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations. Following the adoption of this guidance, Teradyne continues to record the service cost component in the same line item as other employee compensation costs and the non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses are reported within other (income) expense, net. The retrospective adoption of this standard increased the first quarter of 2017 income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of the non-service component of pension expense and decreased other income (expense), net by the same amount with no impact to net income.  
 “Leases.” The new standard establishes a right- of-use (“ROU”) model that requires a lessee to record an ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statements of operations. The new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. Teradyne is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on its financial position and results of operations.  
On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total preliminary purchase price of approximately $27.6 million. Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare; utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots. The Energid acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition. As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s preliminary purchase price allocation was goodwill of $15.7 million, acquired intangible assets of $10.9 million with an average estimated useful life of 6.1 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets. The acquisition was not material to our condensed consolidated financial statements.  
Teradyne considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents.  
   •   The intent and ability to retain the investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.  
Teradyne’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2, and equity securities are classified as Level 1. Acquisition-related contingent consideration is classified as Level 3. Teradyne determines the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration using a Monte Carlo simulation model. Assumptions utilized in the model include forecasted revenues, revenue volatility and discount rate. The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors. These pricing vendors utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities.  
Realized gains recorded in the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 were $0.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Realized losses recorded in the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 were $1.5 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Realized gains are included in interest income and realized losses are included in interest expense.  
Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Changes in fair value of equity securities are included in other (income) expense, net. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.  
During the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 financial instruments.  
The following table sets forth by fair value hierarchy Teradyne’s financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017.  
 (b) In the three months ended April 1, 2018, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was decreased by $5.0 million, primarily due to a decrease in forecasted revenue. In the three months ended April 2, 2017, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was increased by $0.6 million primarily due to an increase in forecasted revenue and a decrease in the discount rate.  
As of April 1, 2018, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the Universal Robots contingent consideration include forecasted revenue, revenue volatility and discount rate. Increases or decreases in the inputs would result in a higher or lower fair value measurement. The maximum payment for the remaining Universal Robots revenue earn-out is $25.0 million.  
The fair values of accounts receivable, net and accounts payable approximate the carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.  
As of April 1, 2018, the fair market value of investments in debt securities with unrealized losses totaled $891.0 million. Of this value, $62.1 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million for greater than one year and $828.9 million had unrealized losses of $1.9 million for less than one year.  
As of December 31, 2017, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $1,350.9 million. Of this value, $141.0 million had unrealized losses of $1.2 million for greater than one year and $1,209.9 million had unrealized losses of $2.2 million for less than one year.  
Contractual maturities of investments in debt securities held at April 1, 2018 exclude $2.7 million of debt mutual funds as they do not have a contractual maturity date.  
Teradyne conducts business in a number of foreign countries, with certain transactions denominated in local currencies. The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Teradyne does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  
The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts at April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $108.8 million and $116.8 million, respectively.  
 (2) For the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, net gains from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were $0.6 million and $1.5 million, respectively.  
On December 12, 2016, Teradyne completed a private offering of $460.0 million convertible senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”). The Notes will mature on December 15, 2023, unless earlier repurchased or converted. The Notes bear interest from December 12, 2016 at a rate of 1.25% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2017.  
Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”). The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the common stock that underlie the Notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the Notes of $31.80. The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.  
The convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s stock as the terms of the Note Hedge Transactions do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price. Because the only variable that can affect the settlement amount is Teradyne’s stock price, which is an input to the fair value of a fixed-for-fixed option contract, the convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s stock.  
Teradyne’s effective annual interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 5.0%. The Notes are classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet based on their December 15, 2023 maturity date. Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2 million are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the seven year term of the Notes. As of April 1, 2018, unamortized debt issuance costs were approximately $6.0 million.  
As of April 1, 2018, the remaining unamortized discount was $90.6 million, which will be amortized over 5.8 years using the effective interest rate method. The carrying amount of the equity component was $100.8 million. As of April 1, 2018, the conversion rate was equal to the initial conversion price of approximately $31.80 per share and the if-converted value of the Notes was $661.2 million.  
On April 27, 2015, Teradyne entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the lenders party thereto. The Credit Agreement provides for a five-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of up to $350 million (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Agreement further provides that, subject to customary conditions, Teradyne may seek to obtain from existing or new lenders incremental commitments under the Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150 million.  
Teradyne is not required to repay any loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity, subject to certain customary exceptions. Teradyne is permitted to prepay all or any portion of the loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity without premium or penalty, other than customary LIBOR breakage costs.  
Teradyne generally provides a one-year warranty on its products, commencing upon installation, acceptance, delivery or shipment. A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenues for estimated warranty expense based on historical experience. Related costs are charged to the warranty accrual as incurred. The warranty balance below is included in other accrued liabilities on the balance sheet.  
Stock options to purchase Teradyne’s common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the grant date vest in equal annual installments over four years from the grant date and have a maximum term of seven years.  
Commencing in January 2014, Teradyne granted performance-based restricted stock units (“PRSUs”) to its executive officers with a performance metric based on relative total shareholder return (“TSR”). For TSR grants issued in 2018 and 2017, Teradyne’s three-year TSR performance is measured against the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Composite Index. The final number of TSR PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares capped at four times the grant date value. The TSR PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date. The TSR PRSUs are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The number of units expected to be earned, based upon the achievement of the TSR market condition, is factored into the grant date Monte Carlo valuation. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three-year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below. Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of the grant. Compensation expense is recognized regardless of the eventual number of units that are earned based upon the market condition, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period. Compensation expense is reversed if at any time during the three-year service period the executive officer is no longer an employee, subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.  
In January 2018 and 2017, Teradyne granted PRSUs to its executive officers with a performance metric based on three-year cumulative non-GAAP profit before interest and tax (“PBIT”) as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue. Non-GAAP PBIT is a financial measure equal to GAAP income from operations less restructuring and other, net; amortization of acquired intangible assets; acquisition and divestiture related charges or credits; pension actuarial gains and losses; non-cash convertible debt interest expense; and other non-recurring gains and charges. The final number of PBIT PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from  
 200% to 0% of the target shares. The PBIT PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below. Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized based on the number of units that are earned based upon the three-year Teradyne PBIT as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.  
Beginning with PRSUs granted in January 2014, if the recipient’s employment ends prior to the determination of the performance percentage due to (1) permanent disability or death or (2) retirement or termination other than for cause, after attaining both at least age sixty and at least ten years of service, then all or a portion of the recipient’s PRSUs (based on the actual performance percentage achieved on the determination date) will vest on the date the performance percentage is determined. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, no PRSUs will vest if the executive officer is no longer an employee at the end of the three-year period.  
Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of Teradyne’s stock and the NYSE Composite Index for the 2018 and 2017 grant over the most recent three year period. The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2018 grants and $0.28 per share for 2017 grants, divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $47.70 for the 2018 grant and $28.56 for the 2017 grant.  
During the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million, respectively, of PBIT PRSUs with a grant date fair value of $46.62 and $27.72, respectively.  
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.5 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $46.58 and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $12.17.  
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.8 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $27.86 and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $7.13.  
Teradyne determined the stock options’ expected life based upon historical exercise data for executive officers, the age of the executive officers and the terms of the stock option grant. Volatility was determined using historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life. The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2018 grants and $0.28 per share for 2017 grants divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $47.70 for the 2018 grant and $28.56 for the 2017 grant.  
Teradyne performs its annual goodwill impairment test as required under the provisions of ASC 350-10, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other” on December 31 of each fiscal year unless interim indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill is considered impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value.  
Aggregate intangible asset amortization expense was $7.7 million and $8.0 million, respectively, for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017.  
 (1) Incremental shares from assumed conversion of the convertible notes was calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the conversion price of $31.80, multiplied by 14.5 million shares. The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the convertible debt, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.  
 (2) Convertible notes hedge warrant shares were calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the warrant price of $39.91, multiplied by 14.5 million shares. The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the warrant, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.  
The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three months ended April 1, 2018 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.4 million shares of restricted stock units because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.  
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne recorded a $5.0 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $3.9 million recorded for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, and $0.8 million of acquisition related expenses.  
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, Teradyne recorded $2.5 million of restructuring and other charges of which $1.3 million was for a lease impairment of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA which was terminated in September 2017, $0.6 million was for employee severance charges, and $0.6 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.  
In the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne contributed $0.6 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan and $0.2 million to certain qualified pension plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries.  
In addition to receiving pension benefits, Teradyne employees in the United States who meet early retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in Teradyne’s Welfare Plan, which includes medical and dental benefits up to age 65. Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees’ survivors and are available to all retirees. Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.  
As of April 1, 2018, Teradyne had entered into purchase commitments for certain components and materials. The purchase commitments covered by the agreements aggregate to approximately $285.8 million, of which $275.7 million is for less than one year.  
The effective tax rate for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 was 9.2% and 7.4%, respectively.  
Discrete tax benefits recorded in the three months ended April 1, 2018 amounted to $8.3 million composed of $7.6 million from stock based compensation and $0.7 million of other discrete tax benefits. Discrete tax expense amounted to $2.3 million composed of $1.7 million from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of reductions in tax rates and $0.6 million of other discrete tax expenses. The $7.6 million of discrete benefit from stock based compensation included $7.4 million of excess tax benefits recognized pursuant to ASU No. 2016-09 “Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.”  
Discrete tax benefits recorded in the three months ended April 2, 2017 amounted to $7.0 million of which $5.5 million resulted from stock based compensation, $0.7 million related to U.S. research and development tax credits and $0.8 million from other discrete tax benefits. The $5.5 million of discrete benefit from stock based compensation included $5.2 million of excess tax benefits recognized pursuant to ASU No. 2016-09 “Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.”  
As of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Teradyne had $37.3 million and $36.3 million, respectively, of reserves for uncertain tax positions. The $1.0 million net increase in reserves for uncertain tax positions is primarily composed of additions related to transfer pricing exposures and U.S. research and development tax credits.  
Teradyne qualifies for a tax holiday in Singapore by fulfilling the requirements of an agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board under which certain headcount and spending requirements must be met. The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the three months ended April 1, 2018 was $3.0 million, or $0.01 per diluted share. The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the three months ended April 2, 2017 was $4.7 million, or $0.02 per diluted share. The tax holiday is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2020.  
Teradyne has four operating segments (Semiconductor Test, System Test, Industrial Automation and Wireless Test), which are its reportable segments. The Semiconductor Test segment includes operations related  
 (3) Total business assets are directly attributable to each business. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and certain other assets.  
In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. Teradyne intends to repurchase $750 million in 2018. During the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne repurchased 2.9 million shares of common stock for $134.3 million at an average price of $45.69 per share.  
In December 2016, the Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization which commenced on January 1, 2017. During the three months ended April 2, 2017, Teradyne repurchased 1.3 million shares of common stock for $37.7 million at an average price of $29.38 per share.  
The total price includes commissions and is recorded as a reduction to retained earnings.  
Holders of Teradyne’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by Teradyne’s Board of Directors.  
In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share. Dividend payments for the three months ended April 1, 2018 were $17.6 million.  
In January 2017, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share. Dividend payments for the three months ended April 2, 2017 were $14.0 million.  
While Teradyne declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, it may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future. Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of Teradyne’s Board of Directors which will consider, among other things, Teradyne’s earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.  
On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $148 million net of cash acquired, and up to an additional approximately $124 million payable upon the achievement of certain revenue and profit performance targets through 2020. The fair value of assets and liabilities acquired has not been disclosed because Teradyne has not completed the valuation. MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications. MiR will be part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.  
