item1.txt
The accounting polices used in preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q are the same as those used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended January 31, 2019, except for the change resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standard Codification Topic 842 (“ASC 842”), Leases.
In February 2019, the Company adopted the guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) related to leases.
The provisions of ASU 2018-13 relating to changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
With respect to the acquired intangibles included in the table above, amortization expense of $1.1 million and $1.0 million has been included in the condensed consolidated statements of income for the three months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018, respectively.
Amortization expense of $3.2 million and $3.1 million related to the above acquired intangibles has been included in the condensed consolidated statement of income for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018, respectively.
The outstanding balance bears interest at a weighted average annual rate of 5.26% and $93,000 and $39,000 of interest has been incurred on this obligation and included in other expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated income statement for the nine month periods ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018, respectively.
Following the completion of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company entered into a Fourth Amendment to the Credit Agreement to, among other things, temporarily increase the revolving line of credit from $10.0 million to $17.5 million and modify certain of the financial covenants with which the Company must comply thereunder.
Following the completion of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company entered into a Fourth Amendment to its Credit Agreement with Bank of America governing the Company’s long-term debt.
Refer to Note 17 – Subsequent Events for additional information on the Fourth Amendment and the resulting changes to the terms of the Credit Agreement.
The Company has entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the floating-rate foreign currency-denominated term loan borrowing by our Danish Subsidiary and an interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk associated with the variable rate term loan borrowing by the Company.
The cross-currency interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt denominated in U.S. Dollars on our Danish subsidiary’s books to a fixed-rate debt denominated in Danish Kroner for the term of the loan, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate and foreign currency exchange rate changes on future interest expense and principal repayments.
The interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company on its term loan effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt for the next five years, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate changes on future interest expense.
At November 2, 2019, the Company expects to reclassify approximately $0.2 million of net gains on the swap contracts from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings during the next 12 months due to changes in foreign exchange rates and the payment of variable interest associated with the floating-rate debt.
At November 2, 2019, the current portion of the outstanding guaranteed minimum royalty obligation of $2.0 million is to be paid over the next twelve months and is reported as a current liability and the remainder of $8.5 million is reported as a long-term liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
In addition to the guaranteed minimum royalty payments, the Company also incurred excess royalty expense of $0.1 million and $0.8 million, respectively, for the three and nine month periods ended November 2, 2019 and $0.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively, for the three and nine month periods ended October 27, 2018 which is included in cost of revenue in the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income.
A total of $0.4 million of excess royalty is payable and reported as a current liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet at November 2, 2019.
On February 1, 2019 the Company adopted ASC 842, Leases.
The lease liability is equal to the present value of the minimum lease payments for the term of the lease, including any optional renewal periods determined to be reasonably certain to be exercised, using a discount rate determined at lease commencement.
The Company’s incremental borrowing rate approximates the rate the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term at lease inception.
Operating lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and included in general and administrative expense on the condensed consolidated statement of income.
For operating leases, ROU assets are classified in other long-term assets, short-term lease liabilities are classified in other current liabilities, and long-term lease liabilities are classified in other long-term liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The Company enters into lease contracts for certain of its facilities at various locations worldwide.
Several of the Company’s lease contracts include options to extend the lease term and the Company includes the renewal options for these leases in the determination of the ROU asset and lease liability when the likelihood of renewal is determined to be reasonably certain.
The Company applied ASC 842 to all leases in effect at February 1, 2019 and adopted the accounting standard using the non-comparative transition option, which does not require the restatement of prior years.
The Company has made an accounting policy election to apply the short-term exception, which does not require the capitalization of leases with terms of 12 months or less.
On February 1, 2019, the Company recognized $2.0 million of ROU assets and lease liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 to 12 years, some of which include options to extend the lease term for periods up to five years when it is reasonably certain the Company will exercise such options.
As of November 2, 2019, the weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating leases are 5.7 years and 3.98%, respectively.
The weighted average fair value per share for stock options granted was $7.41 during the nine month period ended October 27, 2018.
As of November 2, 2019, there was approximately $0.9 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 1.7 years.
As of November 2, 2019, there was approximately $2.5 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to RSUs and RSAs which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 0.9 years.
The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion, is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current interest rates at which similar loans with the same maturities would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and is classified as Level 3.
On December 9, 2019, the Company and its wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS (the “Parties”), entered into a Fourth Amendment (the “Fourth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement dated as of February 28, 2017 between the Parties and Bank of America, N.A.
The Fourth Amendment amends the Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) increase the aggregate amount available for borrowings under the revolving line of credit prior to November 1, 2020 from $10.0 million to $17.5 million and (ii) modify the financial covenants with which the Company must comply thereunder by excluding certain capital expenditures from the calculation of the Company’s consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, providing that the minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio covenant will be suspended through the second quarter of fiscal 2021, and adding a minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant commencing with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 and continuing through the second quarter of fiscal 2021.
The Fourth Amendment amends the Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) increase the aggregate amount available for borrowings under the revolving line of credit prior to November 1, 2020 from $10.0 million to $17.5 million and (ii) modify the financial covenants with which the Company must comply thereunder by excluding certain capital expenditures from the calculation of the Company’s consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, providing that the minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio covenant will be suspended through the second quarter of fiscal 2021, and adding a minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant commencing with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 and continuing through the second quarter of fiscal 2021.
3A   Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company and all amendments thereto, filed as Exhibit 3A to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2016 and incorporated by reference herein.


item2.txt
Other expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.2 million compared to $0.5 million in the third quarter of the prior year.
Current quarter other expense primarily includes interest expense on the Company’s debt and revolving line of credit of $0.2 million.
The Company reported net income of $0.5 million or $0.06 per diluted share for the third quarter of the current year.
Revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $103.0 million, representing a 3.5% increase compared to the previous year’s first nine months of revenue of $99.5 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the first nine months of the current year was $64.5 million, an increase of 6.1% from prior year domestic revenue of $60.8 million.
International revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $38.5 million, a slight decrease from the previous year international revenue of $38.7 million.
Supplies revenue in the first nine months of the current year was $55.5 million, representing a 5.3% increase over the prior year’s first nine months revenue of $52.7 million.
Service and other revenues were $10.0 million in the first nine months of the current year, a 13.4% increase compared to the prior year’s first nine months service and other revenues of $8.8 million.
Current year first nine months gross profit was $38.5 million, a 2.3% decrease from prior year’s first nine months gross profit of $39.4 million.
The Company’s gross profit margin of 37.4% in the current year reflects a decrease from the prior year’s first nine months gross profit margin of 39.6%.
Other expense during the first nine months of the current year was $0.8 million compared to $1.3 million in the first nine months of the previous year.
Current year other expense includes interest expense of $0.6 million on the Company’s debt and revolving credit line and $0.3 million of net foreign exchange loss which was partially offset by investment and other income of $0.1 million.
The Company reported net income of $3.1 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, for the first nine months of the current year.
On a comparable basis, net income for the first nine months of the prior year was $3.4 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, which included $0.8 million of after-tax income, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates in the prior year’s first quarter for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
Total current quarter revenue from the Product Identification segment of $21.7 million was comparable to revenue for the same period of the prior year.
The slight decrease in Product Identification current year third quarter operating segment operating margin is primarily due to higher operating expenses and adverse product mix.
Revenues from the Product Identification segment increased 6.4% to $67.5 million in the first nine months of the current year from $63.4 million in the same period of the prior year.
Product Identification current year segment operating profit was $7.0 million with a profit margin of 10.4%, compared to the prior year segment operating profit of $5.8 million and related profit margin of 9.2 %.
During the third quarter of the current year, the Company borrowed an additional $3.0 million on its revolving credit facility.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2020 compared to $2.5 million for the same period of the previous year.
The decrease in net cash provided by operations for the first nine months of the current year is primarily due to the decrease in net income, and an increase in cash used for working capital.
The $1.4 million decrease in the accounts receivable balance from year end is directly related to the decrease in sales for the third quarter of the current year as compared to third quarter sales in fiscal 2019.
The net decreased cash position at November 2, 2019 primarily resulted from principal payments of long-term debt and the guaranteed royalty obligation of $4.0 million and $1.4 million, respectively; cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $2.4 million and dividends paid of $1.5 million, offset by increased cash provided by current period borrowing on the Company’s existing revolving credit facility of $5.0 million.


part2.txt
The description of the Fourth Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Fourth Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
31.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
32.1   Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
32.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  


