item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
The accounting polices used in preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q are the same as those used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended January 31, 2019, except for the change resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, “Leases (“Topic 842”), as provided below.
Operating Right-of-use (“ROU”) assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company’s obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and lease liabilities are recognized at commencement of the lease based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate in determining the present value of future payments.
Operating lease ROU assets include any lease pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred when appropriate.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and included in general and administrative expense on our condensed consolidated statement of income.
Operating leases are included in Right of Use assets, Other Liabilities and Accrued Expenses, and Lease Liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Also upon adoption, the Company elected the package of practical expedients, which, include not reassessing 1) whether any expired or existing contracts contain leases, 2) lease classifications of expired or existing leases, and 3) initial direct costs, if any, for existing leases.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of ROU assets and lease liabilities of $2.0 million as of February 1, 2019.
This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 including interim periods within those fiscal years (Q1 fiscal 2021 for AstroNova), with early adoption permitted.
The provisions of ASU 2018-13 relating to changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.
Our contract liabilities, which represent billings in excess of revenue recognized, are related to advanced billings for purchased service agreements and extended warranties and were $350,000 and $373,000 at May 4, 2019 and January 31, 2019, respectively, and are recorded as deferred revenue in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The decrease in the deferred revenue balance during the three months ended May 4, 2019 is primarily due to approximately $205,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2019, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
For the three months ended May 4, 2019 and April 28, 2018, the diluted per share amounts do not include common equivalent shares outstanding of 260,422 and 248,480, respectively, because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
With respect to the acquired intangibles included in the table above, amortization expense of $1.1 million and $1.0 million has been included in the condensed consolidated statements of income for the periods ended May 4, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
The outstanding balance bears interest at a weighted average annual rate of 5.75% and $19,000 of interest has been incurred on this obligation and included in other expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated income statement for the period ended May 4, 2019.
The Company has entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the floating-rate foreign currency-denominated term loan borrowing by our Danish Subsidiary and an interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk associated with the variable rate term loan borrowing by the Company.
The cross-currency interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt denominated in U.S. Dollars on our Danish subsidiary’s books to a fixed-rate debt denominated in Danish Krone for the term of the loan, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate and foreign currency exchange rate changes on future interest expense and principal repayments.
This swap involves the receipt of floating rate amounts in U.S. Dollars in exchange for fixed-rate interest payments in Danish Krone, as well as exchanges of principal at the inception spot rate, over the life of the term loan.
The interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company on its term loan effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt for the next five years, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate changes on future interest expense.
This swap involves the receipt of floating rate amounts in U.S. Dollars in exchange for fixed rate payments in U.S. dollars over the life of the term loan.
At May 4, 2019, the Company expects to reclassify approximately $0.3 million of net gains on the swap contracts from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings during the next 12 months due to changes in foreign exchange rates and the payment of variable interest associated with the floating-rate debt.
The purchase price included a guaranteed minimum royalty payment of $15.0 million, to be paid over ten years, based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products.
The guaranteed minimum royalty payment obligation of $15.0 million was recorded at the present value of the minimum annual royalty payments using a present value factor of 2.8%, which is based on the estimated after-tax cost of debt for similar companies.
At May 4, 2019, the current portion of the outstanding guaranteed minimum royalty obligation of $2.0 million is to be paid over the next twelve months and is reported as a current liability and the remainder of $9.4 million is reported as a long-term liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
In addition to the guaranteed minimum royalty payments, the Company also incurred $0.6 million and $0.5 million, respectively, in excess royalty expense, which is included in cost of revenue in the Company’s consolidated statements of income for the three months ended May 4, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
A total of $1.3 million of excess royalty is payable and reported as a current liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet at May 4, 2019.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 to 12 years, some of which include options to extend the lease term for periods up to 5 years, as well as options to terminate the lease within one year when it is reasonably certain the Company will exercise such options.
The lease is classified as an operating lease and provides for annual rentals of approximately $64,000 and $66,000 in fiscal 2020 and 2021, respectively.
As of May 4, 2019, the weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating leases are 6.3 years and 4.02%, respectively.
The number of whole shares to be granted will be equal to the number calculated by dividing the stock component of the director compensation amount determined by the compensation committee for that year by the fair market value of our stock on that day.
To account for the partial year beginning on February 1, 2019 and continuing through the 2019 annual meeting and thereby provide for the alignment of the timing of annual grants of restricted stock under the New Program with the election of directors at the annual meeting, on February 1, 2019, each non-employee director was granted shares of restricted stock with a fair market value of $18,000.
As of May 4, 2019, there was approximately $1,232,000 of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.2 years.
AstroNova has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan allowing eligible employees to purchase shares of common stock at a 15% discount from fair value on the first or last day of an offering period, whichever is less.
The Company determines its estimated annual effective tax rate at the end of each interim period based on full-year forecasted pre-tax income and facts known at that time.
The estimated annual effective tax rate is applied to the year-to-date pre-tax income at the end of each interim period with the cumulative effect of any changes in the estimated annual effective tax rate being recorded in the fiscal quarter in which the change is determined.
The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion, is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current interest rates at which similar loans with the same maturities would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and is classified as Level 3.
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.


item2.txt
Revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $36.2 million, representing a 14.9% increase compared to the previous year first quarter revenue of $31.5 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year first quarter was $22.0 million, an increase of 14.6% over the prior year’s first quarter.
International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $14.2 million, a 15.8% increase over the previous year first quarter, and represents 39.2% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue.
Current year first quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.6 million.
Current year first quarter gross profit was $14.2 million, a 17.6% increase compared to prior year first quarter gross profit of $12.1 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 39.4% reflects a 0.9 percentage point increase from prior year first quarter gross profit margin of 38.5%.
The higher gross profit and related profit margin for the current quarter compared to prior year’s first quarter is primarily attributable to increased sales and lower manufacturing variable costs.
Other expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.4 million compared to $0.3 million in the prior year first quarter.
Current quarter other expense includes interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.2 million.
The Company reported net income of $1.7 million or $0.23 per diluted share for the first quarter of the current year.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year first quarter was $0.8 million or $0.12 per diluted share, which included after-tax income of $0.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into as a part of the fiscal 2018 Honeywell licenses and product line acquisition.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates as part of the Honeywell licenses and product line acquisition increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 18.2% in the first quarter of the current year, with revenue of $23.6 million compared to $20.0 million in the same period of the prior year.
The current quarter increase in revenue is primarily attributable to the increase in supplies revenue, specifically, labels and tag supplies revenue and inkjet supply revenue, both experiencing double digit growth as compared to the same period in the prior year.
The current quarter also experienced growth in parts revenue compared to the same period in the prior year.
Product Identification’s current quarter segment operating profit was $2.9 million, reflecting a profit margin of 12.2%.
This compares to prior year’s first quarter segment profit of $1.7 million and related profit margin of 8.3%.
The increase in Product Identification current year first quarter segment operating margin is primarily due to higher sales, product mix and lower manufacturing and period costs.
Under this combined arrangement, payments of principal and interest with respect to approximately $8.9 million of the principal of the term loan will be made in Danish Krone, and interest on such principal amount will be payable at a fixed rate of 0.67% per annum for the entire term, subject only to potential changes based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly owned German subsidiary, AstroNova GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.0 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to cash used by operating activities of $1.6 million for the same period of the previous year.
The combination of changes in accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and accrued expenses decreased cash by $3.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to a decrease of $4.5 million for the same period in fiscal 2019.
The accounts receivable balance decreased to $22.0 million at the end of the first quarter compared to $23.5 million at year end and the collection cycle increased to 53 days compared to 49 days at year end.
The inventory balance was $32.0 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to $30.2 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 131 days at the end of the current quarter from 120 days at the prior year end.


part2.txt
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


