item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, which includes identifying contracts with customers, identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation and recognizing revenue when the entity satisfies each performance obligation.
The portion of service agreement contracts that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.
Our contract liabilities, which represent billings in excess of revenue recognized, are related to advanced billings for purchased service agreements and extended warranties and were $374,000 and $367,000 at October 27, 2018 and January 31, 2018, respectively, and are recorded as deferred revenue in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The slight increase in the deferred revenue at October 27, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $610,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
The Honeywell Agreement also provided for guaranteed minimum royalty payments of $15.0 million, to be paid to Honeywell over the next ten years, based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products.
The minimum royalty payment obligation of $15.0 million was recorded at the present value of the annual minimum royalty payments using a present value factor of 2.8%, which is based on the estimated after tax cost of debt for similar companies.
At October 27, 2018, the current portion of the minimum royalty obligation to be paid over the next twelve months is $1.8 million and is reported as a current liability, and the remainder of $10.4 million is reported as a long-term liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
For the three and nine months ended October 27, 2018, the Company incurred $0.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively, in excess royalty expense, which is included in cost of revenue in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income for the period ended October 27, 2018.
A total of $1.2 million of excess royalty is payable at October 27, 2018 and reported as a current liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
In connection with the Honeywell Agreement, the Company also entered into a Transition Services Agreement (“TSA”) with Honeywell related to the transfer of the manufacturing and repair of the licensed printers from their current locations to AstroNova’s plant in West Warwick, Rhode Island.
During the current year, the Company paid $0.4 million to acquire an additional repair facility revenue stream in accordance with the terms of the TSA.
The additional $0.4 million TSA obligation payment was included as part of the Honeywell Agreement purchase price and recorded as an increase to the related intangible asset.
The purchase price, including the initial payment, the minimum royalty payment obligation, transaction costs, and the subsequent TSA $0.4 million obligation payment, were allocated based on the relative fair value of the assets acquired.
These fair value measurements are based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market and therefore represent a Level 3 measurement as defined in ASC 820, “Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure.” Key assumptions in estimating the fair value of the intangibles include (1) the remaining life of the intangibles based on the term of the Honeywell Asset Purchase and License Agreement of 10 years, (2) a range of annual earnings projections from $3.9 million – $5.4 million and (3) the Company’s internal rate of return of 21.0%.
With respect to the acquired intangibles included in the table above, amortization expense of $1,039,000 and $508,000 related to the above acquired intangibles has been included in the condensed consolidated statement of income for the three months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, respectively.
Amortization expense of $3,085,000 and $1,111,000 related to the above acquired intangibles has been included in the condensed consolidated statement of income for the nine months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, respectively.
The 2018 Plan provides for, among other things, the issuance of awards with respect to up to 650,000 shares of the Company’s common stock, plus an additional number of shares equal to the number of shares subject to awards granted under the 2018 Plan or the Company’s 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 Plan” and, together with the 2018 Plan, the “Plans”) that are, following the effectiveness of the 2018 Plan, forfeited, cancelled, satisfied without the issuance of stock, otherwise terminated (other than by exercise), or, for shares of stock issued pursuant to any unvested award, reacquired by the Company at not more than the grantee’s purchase price (other than by exercise).
In March 2015 (fiscal year 2016), the Company granted 50,000 options and 537 RSAs to its Chief Executive Officer pursuant to an Equity Incentive Award Agreement dated as of November 24, 2014 (“CEO Equity Incentive Agreement”), and 35,000 options to other key employees.
In May 2015 (fiscal year 2016), the Company granted an aggregate of 80,000 time-based and 155,000 performance-based RSUs (“2016 RSUs”) to certain officers of the Company.
Performance-based 2016 RSUs that are earned based on organic revenue growth are fully vested when earned, while those earned based on revenue growth via acquisitions vest annually over a three-year period following the fiscal year in which the revenue growth occurs.
In March 2016 (fiscal year 2017), the Company granted 50,000 options and 4,030 RSAs to its Chief Executive Officer pursuant to the CEO Equity Incentive Agreement.
Also in June 2018, the Company granted an aggregate of 126,000 options, 44,275 time-based RSUs and 38,000 performance-based RSUs to certain officers of the Company, all of which vest over three years.
The weighted average fair value per share for options granted was $7.41 during the nine month period ended October 27, 2018, compared to $4.46 during the nine month period ended October 28, 2017.
As of October 27, 2018, there was approximately $1.7 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.5 years.
As of October 27, 2018, there was approximately $1.2 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to RSUs and RSAs which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.2 years.
The Company determines its estimated annual effective tax rate at the end of each interim period based on full-year forecasted pre-tax income and facts known at that time.
The estimated annual effective tax rate is applied to the year-to-date pre-tax income at the end of each interim period with the cumulative effect of any changes in the estimated annual effective tax rate being recorded in the fiscal quarter in which the change is determined.
The First Amendment amended the existing Credit Agreement to permit the Honeywell Asset Purchase and License Agreement and temporarily increased the amount available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility from $10.0 million to $15.0 million.
The initial upfront payment of $14.6 million for the Honeywell Agreement was paid using borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility.
The Second Amendment provided for a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million, in addition to the revolving credit facility for the Company and the term loan previously borrowed by ANI ApS at the original closing under the Credit Agreement.
The Third Amendment defines “Immaterial Subsidiary” as any subsidiary of the Company with (a) consolidated total assets that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and (b) revenues that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries, as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter; provided that Immaterial Subsidiaries shall not account for, in the aggregate, more than 10% the of consolidated total assets or consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the Credit Agreement, AstroNova and ANI ApS entered into certain hedging arrangements with the Lender to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect of the term loans.
The outstanding balance bears interest at a weighted average annual rate of 5.5% and $38,000 of interest has been accrued on this obligation and included in other expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated income statement for the three and nine months ended October 27, 2018.
The Company has entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the floating-rate foreign currency-denominated term loan borrowing by our Danish Subsidiary and an interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk associated with the variable rate $15.0 million term loan borrowing by the Company.
The cross-currency interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk by converting approximately $8.9 million of the Company’s floating-rate debt denominated in U.S. Dollars on our Danish subsidiary’s books to a fixed-rate debt denominated in Danish Krone for the term of the loan, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate and foreign currency exchange rate changes on future interest expense and principal repayments.
As of October 27, 2018, the total notional amount of the Company’s cross-currency interest rate swap was $6.7 million and is included in other long term liabilities in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet at its fair value amount of $0.5 million.
The interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company on the $15.0 million term loan effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt over the life of the loan, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate changes on future interest expense.
the Company’s interest rate swap was $12.0 million and is included in other assets in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance at its fair value amount of $0.2 million.
At October 27, 2018, the Company expects to reclassify approximately $0.3 million of net gains on the swap contracts from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to earnings during the next 12 months due to changes in foreign exchange rates and the payment of variable interest associated with the floating-rate debt.
This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 including interim periods within those fiscal years (Q1 fiscal 2021 for AstroNova), with early adoption permitted.
The amendments on changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” ASU 2016-02 supersedes current guidance related to accounting for leases and is intended to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring lessees to recognize assets and liabilities in the balance sheet for operating leases with lease terms greater than twelve months.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance and expects this guidance to result in recognizing leased assets and lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets.
No other new accounting pronouncements, issued or effective during the first nine months of the current year, have had or are expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Fair value is applied to our financial assets and liabilities including money market funds, available for sale securities, derivative instruments and a contingent consideration liability relating to an earnout payment on future TrojanLabel operating results.
The fair value of the earnout liability incurred in connection with the Company’s acquisition of TrojanLabel was determined using the option approach methodology which includes using significant inputs that are not observable in the market and therefore classified as Level 3.
Key assumptions in estimating the fair value of the contingent consideration liability included (1) the estimated earnout targets over the next seven years of $0.5 million-$1.4 million, (2) the probability of success (achievement of the various contingent events) from 0.0%-0.9% and (3) a risk-adjusted discount rate of approximately 2.68%-4.9% used to adjust the probability-weighted earnout payments to their present value.
At each reporting period, the contingent consideration liability is recorded at its fair value with changes reflected in general and administrative expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion, is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current interest rates at which similar borrowings with the same maturities would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and is classified as Level 3.


item2.txt
Revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $34.2 million, representing an 18.9% increase compared to the previous year third quarter revenue of $28.8 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year third quarter was $21.5 million, an increase of 18.9% over the prior year’s third quarter.
International revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $12.7 million, also an 18.9% increase over the previous year’s third quarter and represents 37% of AstroNova’s third quarter revenue.
Current year third quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.2 million.
The Company reported net income of $1.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share for the third quarter of the current year, consistent with net income for the prior year third quarter of $1.4 million or $0.21 per diluted share.
Revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $99.5 million, representing a 23.3% increase compared to the previous year’s first nine months of revenue of $80.7 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the first nine months of the current year was $60.8 million, an increase of 19.2% from the prior year.
International revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $38.7 million, a 30.3% increase from the previous year.
The current year’s first nine months international revenue included a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.9 million.
Supplies revenue in the first nine months of the current year was $52.7 million, representing a 10.4% increase over the prior year’s first nine months revenue of $47.7 million.
The Company reported net income of $3.4 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, for the first nine months of the current year, which included $0.8 million of after-tax income, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates in the first quarter for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
In the prior year’s first nine months, the Company recognized net income of $2.7 million, or $0.38 per diluted share.
The First Amendment amended the existing Credit Agreement to permit the Honeywell Agreement and temporarily increased the amount available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility from $10.0 million to $15.0 million.
The Second Amendment provided for a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million, in addition to the revolving credit facility for the Company and the term loan previously borrowed by ANI ApS at the original closing under the Credit Agreement.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to $2.0 million for the same period of the previous year.
The decrease in net cash provided by operations for the first nine months of the current year is primarily due to payments of prior quarters’ accrued expenses to Honeywell under the TSA agreement and the increase in inventory to support the transition of the production of printers to the West Warwick facility in accordance with the Honeywell TSA.
The inventory balance increased to $28.3 million at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $27.6 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 126 days at the end of the current quarter from 124 days at the prior year end.
The Company’s backlog increased 15.1% from year-end to $24.5 million at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2019.


part2.txt
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   


