item1.txt
The accounting polices used in preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-Q are the same as those used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended January 31, 2019, except for the change resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standard Codification Topic 842 (“ASC 842”), Leases.
This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 including interim periods within those fiscal years (Q1 fiscal 2021 for AstroNova), with early adoption permitted.
The provisions of ASU 2018-13 relating to changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.
Our contract liabilities, which represent billings in excess of revenue recognized, are related to advanced billings for purchased service agreements and extended warranties and were $321,000 and $373,000 at August 3, 2019 and January 31, 2019, respectively, and are recorded as deferred revenue in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The decrease in the deferred revenue balance during the six months ended August 3, 2019 is primarily due to approximately $412,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2019, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
For the three and six months ended August 3, 2019, the diluted per share amounts do not reflect common equivalent shares outstanding of 11,560 and 218,466, respectively.
With respect to the acquired intangibles included in the table above, amortization expense of $1.1 million and $1.0 million has been included in the condensed consolidated statements of income for the three months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018, respectively.
Amortization expense of $2.1 million and $2.0 million related to the above acquired intangibles has been included in the condensed consolidated statement of income for the six months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018, respectively.
The outstanding balance bears interest at a weighted average annual rate of 5.71% and $24,000 and $43,000 of interest has been incurred on this obligation and included in other expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated income statement for the three and six month periods ended August 3, 2019, respectively.
The cross-currency interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt denominated in U.S. Dollars on our Danish subsidiary’s books to a fixed-rate debt denominated in Danish Kroner for the term of the loan, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate and foreign currency exchange rate changes on future interest expense and principal repayments.
The interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company on its term loan effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt for the next five years, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate changes on future interest expense.
At August 3, 2019, the Company expects to reclassify approximately $0.2 million of net gains on the swap contracts from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings during the next 12 months due to changes in foreign exchange rates and the payment of variable interest associated with the floating-rate debt.
The purchase price included a guaranteed minimum royalty payment of $15.0 million, to be paid over ten years, based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products.
The guaranteed minimum royalty payment obligation was recorded at the present value of the minimum annual royalty payments using a present value factor of 2.8%, which is based on the estimated after-tax cost of debt for similar companies.
As of August 3, 2019, the Company had paid an aggregate of $2.5 million of the guaranteed minimum royalty obligation.
At August 3, 2019, the current portion of the outstanding guaranteed minimum royalty obligation of $2.0 million is to be paid over the next twelve months and is reported as a current liability and the remainder of $9.0 million is reported as a long-term liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
In addition to the guaranteed minimum royalty payments, the Company also incurred excess royalty expense of $0.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively, for the three and six month periods ended August 3, 2019 and $0.9 and $1.3 million, respectively, for the three and six month periods ended July 28, 2018 which is included in cost of revenue in the Company’s consolidated statements of income.
A total of $0.6 million of excess royalty is payable and reported as a current liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet at August 3, 2019.
This new guidance requires a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases, with the result being the recognition of a right of use (ROU) asset and a lease liability.
The lease liability is equal to the present value of the minimum lease payments for the term of the lease, including any optional renewal periods determined to be reasonably certain to be exercised, using a discount rate determined at lease commencement.
The Company’s incremental borrowing rate approximates the rate the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term at lease inception.
The value of the ROU asset is equal to the initial measurement of the lease liability plus any lease payments made to the lessor at or before the commencement date and any unamortized initial direct costs incurred by the lessee, less any unamortized lease incentives received.
Operating lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and included in general and administrative expense on the condensed consolidated statement of income.
For operating leases, ROU assets are classified in other long-term assets, short-term lease liabilities are classified in other current liabilities, and long-term lease liabilities are classified in other long-term liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Several of the Company’s lease contracts include options to extend the lease term and Company includes the renewal options for these leases in the determination of the ROU asset and lease liability when the likelihood of renewal is determined to be reasonably certain.
The Company applied ASC 842 to all leases in effect at February 1, 2019 and adopted the accounting standard using the non-comparative transition option, which does not require the restatement of prior years.
The Company has made an accounting policy election to apply the short-term exception, which does not require the capitalization of leases with terms of 12 months or less.
On February 1, 2019, the Company recognized $2.0 million of ROU assets and lease liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 to 12 years, some of which include options to extend the lease term for periods up to 5 years when it is reasonably certain the Company will exercise such options.
This lease is classified as an operating lease with annual rental payments of approximately $64,000 and $66,000 in fiscal 2020 and 2021, respectively.
As of August 3, 2019, the weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating leases are 6.1 years and 4.02%, respectively.
To account for the partial year beginning on February 1, 2019 and continuing through the 2019 annual meeting, and thereby provide for the alignment of the timing of annual grants of restricted stock under the New Program with the election of directors at the annual meeting, a total of 4,340 shares of restricted stock were granted to the non-employee directors on February 1, 2019.
As of August 3, 2019, there was approximately $1.1 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.0 years.
As of August 3, 2019, there was approximately $2.9 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to RSUs and RSAs which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.9 years.
During the six months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018, there were 2,796 and 2,342 shares, respectively, purchased under this plan.
The Company determines its estimated annual effective tax rate at the end of each interim period based on full-year forecasted pre-tax income and facts known at that time.
The estimated annual effective tax rate is applied to the year-to-date pre-tax income at the end of each interim period with the cumulative effect of any changes in the estimated annual effective tax rate being recorded in the fiscal quarter in which the change is determined.
The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion, is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current interest rates at which similar loans with the same maturities would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and is classified as Level 3.


item2.txt
Revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $33.5 million, representing a slight decrease compared to the previous year second quarter revenue of $33.8 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the second quarter of the current year was $20.6 million, an increase of 3.4% over the prior year’s second quarter.
International revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $12.9 million, a 7.3% decrease over the previous year second quarter, and represents 38.3% of AstroNova’s second quarter revenue.
Current year second quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.3 million.
Current year second quarter gross profit was $12.0 million, a 10.6% decrease compared to prior year second quarter gross profit of $13.4 million.
The lower gross profit and related profit margin for the current quarter compared to the prior year’s second quarter is primarily attributable to decreased revenue and product mix.
Other expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.2 million compared to $0.5 million in the second quarter of the prior year.
Current quarter other expense primarily includes interest expense on debt and the revolving line of credit of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million, which were partially offset by $0.1 million of other income.
The Company reported net income of $1.0 million or $0.13 per diluted share for the second quarter of the current year.
Revenue for the first six months of the current year was $69.6 million, representing a 6.7% increase compared to the previous year’s first six months of revenue of $65.3 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the first half of the current year was $42.6 million, an increase of 8.7% from prior year domestic revenue of $39.2 million.
International revenue for the first six months of the current year was $27.0 million, a 3.5% increase from the previous year international revenue of $26.1 million.
Supplies revenue in the first half of the current year was $37.8 million, representing a 9.3% increase over the prior year’s first six months revenue of $34.6 million.
Current year first six months gross profit was $26.2 million, a 2.8% increase from prior year’s first six months gross profit of $25.5 million.
The Company’s gross profit margin of 37.6% in the current year reflects a decrease from the prior year’s first six months gross profit margin of 39.1%.
The lower gross profit margin for the current year compared to the prior year is primarily due to higher period costs and product mix.
Other expense during the first six months of the current year was $0.6 million compared to $0.8 million in the first six months of the previous year.
Current year other expense includes interest expense of $0.4 million on the Company’s debt and revolving credit line and $0.3 million of foreign exchange loss, partially offset by investment and other income of $0.1 million.
The Company reported net income of $2.7 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, for the first six months of the current year.
On a comparable basis, net income for the first six months of the prior year was $2.0 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, which included $0.8 million of after-tax income, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates in the prior year’s first quarter for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.
Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 1.7% in the second quarter of the current year, with revenue of $22.1 million compared to $21.8 million in the same period of the prior year.
This compares to the prior year’s second quarter segment profit of $2.2 million and related profit margin of 9.9%.
The slight increase in Product Identification current year second quarter segment operating margin is primarily due to higher sales and product mix.
Revenues from the Product Identification segment increased 9.6% to $45.7 million in the first six months of the current year from $41.7 million in the same period of the prior year.
Product Identification current year segment operating profit was $5.1 million with a profit margin of 11.2%, compared to the prior year segment operating profit of $3.8 million and related profit margin of 9.2 %.
During the second quarter of the current year, the Company borrowed an additional $2.0 million on its revolving credit facility.
The Company’s backlog increased 12.9% from year-end to $22.3 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
The accounts receivable balance decreased to $20.6 million at the end of the second quarter compared to $23.5 million at year end.
The $2.9 million decrease in the accounts receivable balance from year end is directly related to the decrease in sales for the second quarter of the current year as compared to fourth quarter sales in fiscal 2019.
The net decreased cash position at August 3, 2019 primarily resulted from principal payments of long-term debt and the guaranteed royalty obligation of $2.8 million and $0.9 million, respectively; cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $1.5 million and dividends paid of $1.0 million, offset by increased cash provided by operations as discussed above and the current period borrowing on the Company’s existing revolving credit facility of $2.0 million.


part2.txt
32.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


