item1.txt
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.
The portion of service agreement contracts that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.
Our contract liabilities, which represent billings in excess of revenue recognized, are related to advanced billings for purchased service agreements and extended warranties and were $301,000 and $367,000 at April 28, 2018 and January, 31, 2018, respectively, and are recorded as deferred revenue in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The decrease in the deferred revenue balance during the three months ended April 28, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $175,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, amortization of these incremental direct costs was $9,000 and the balance of deferred incremental direct costs net of accumulated amortization at April 28, 2018 was $973,000 which is reported in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The Honeywell Agreement also provided for guaranteed minimum royalty payments of $15.0 million, to be paid to Honeywell over the next ten years, based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products.
The minimum royalty payment obligation of $15.0 million was recorded at the present value of the minimum annual royalty payments using a present value factor of 2.8%, which is based on the estimated after tax cost of debt for similar companies.
At April 28, 2018, the current portion of the royalty obligation to be paid over the next twelve months is $1.5 million and is reported as a current liability and the remainder of $11.4 million is reported as a long-term liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company incurred $0.5 million in excess royalty expense, which is included in cost of goods sold in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income for the three months ended April 28, 2018.
A total of $0.9 million of excess royalty is payable at April 28, 2018 and reported as a current liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Subject to the completion of the terms of the TSA by Honeywell International, the Company may be required to make an additional payment of $0.4 million to acquire an additional repair facility revenue stream.
At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company determined that this payment was probable and recorded a $0.4 million contingent liability which is included as a current liability in the condensed consolidated balance sheet at April 28, 2018.
The additional $0.4 million TSA obligation was included as part of the Honeywell Agreement purchase price and recorded as an increase to the related intangible asset.
The purchase price, including the initial payment, the minimum royalty payment obligation, transaction costs, and the subsequent TSA $0.4 million obligation, were allocated based on the relative fair value of the assets acquired.
These fair value measurements are based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market and therefore represent a Level 3 measurement as defined in ASC 820, “Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure.” Key assumptions in estimating the fair value of the intangibles include (1) the remaining life of the intangibles based on the term of the Honeywell Asset Purchase and License Agreement of 10 years, (2) a range of annual earnings projections from $3.9 million – $5.4 million and (3) the Company’s internal rate of return of 21.0%.
With respect to the acquired intangibles included in the table above, amortization expense of $1,024,000 and $298,000, has been included in the condensed consolidated statements of income for the periods ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
Under this plan, the Company may grant incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, time or performance-based restricted stock units (RSUs), restricted stock awards (RSAs), and other stock-based awards to executives, key employees, directors and other eligible individuals.
The exercise price of each stock option is established at the discretion of the Compensation Committee; however, all options granted under the 2015 Plan must be issued at an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant.
Under the 2015 Plan, each non-employee director receives an automatic annual grant of ten-year options to purchase 5,000 shares of stock upon the adjournment of each annual shareholders meeting.
Each such option is exercisable at the fair market value of the Company’s common stock as of the grant date, and vests immediately prior to the next annual shareholders’ meeting.
The Company has a Non-Employee Director Annual Compensation Program (the “Program”) under which each non-employee director receives an automatic grant of RSAs on the first business day of each fiscal quarter.
Under the Program, the number of whole shares to be granted each quarter is equal to 25% of the number calculated by dividing the director compensation amount by the fair market value of the Company’s stock on such day.
In March 2015 (fiscal year 2016), the Company granted 50,000 options and 537 RSAs to its Chief Executive Officer pursuant to an Equity Incentive Award Agreement dated as of November 24, 2014 (“CEO Equity Incentive Agreement”), and 35,000 options to other key employees.
In May 2015 (fiscal year 2016), the Company granted an aggregate of 80,000 time-based and 155,000 performance-based RSUs (“2016 RSUs”) to certain officers of the Company.
Performance-based 2016 RSUs that are earned based on organic revenue growth are fully vested when earned, while those earned based on revenue growth via acquisitions vest annually over a three-year period following the fiscal year in which the revenue growth occurs.
In March 2016 (fiscal year 2017), the Company granted 50,000 options and 4,030 RSAs to its Chief Executive Officer pursuant to the CEO Equity Incentive Agreement.
In May 2016 (fiscal year 2017) the Company granted 37,000 options to certain key employees.
On August 1, 2016 (fiscal year 2017) the Company granted 5,000 options to its Chief Financial Officer.
The 2018 Plan provides for, among other things, the issuance of awards with respect to up to 650,000 shares of the Company’s common stock, plus an additional number of shares equal to the number of shares subject to awards granted under the 2018 Plan or the 2015 Plan that are, following the effectiveness of the 2018 Plan, forfeited, cancelled, satisfied without the issuance of stock, otherwise terminated (other than by exercise), or, for shares of stock issued pursuant to any unvested award, reacquired by the Company at not more than the grantee’s purchase price (other than by exercise).
The Company determines its estimated annual effective tax rate at the end of each interim period based on full-year forecasted pre-tax income and facts known at that time.
The estimated annual effective tax rate is applied to the year-to-date pre-tax income at the end of each interim period with the cumulative effect of any changes in the estimated annual effective tax rate being recorded in the fiscal quarter in which the change is determined.
The First Amendment amended the existing Credit Agreement to permit the Honeywell Asset Purchase and License Agreement and temporarily increased the amount available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility from $10.0 million to $15.0 million.
The initial upfront payment of $14.6 million for the Honeywell Agreement was paid using borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility.
The Second Amendment provided for a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million, in addition to the revolving credit facility for the Company and the term loan previously borrowed by ANI ApS at the original closing under the Credit Agreement.
The Third Amendment defines “Immaterial Subsidiary” as any subsidiary of the Company with (a) consolidated total assets that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and (b) revenues that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries, as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter; provided that Immaterial Subsidiaries shall not account for, in the aggregate, more than 10% the of consolidated total assets or consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the Credit Agreement, AstroNova and ANI ApS entered into certain hedging arrangements with the Lender to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect of the term loans.
The Credit Agreement permits the Company to pay cash dividends on and repurchase shares of its common stock, subject to certain limitations.
The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly-owned German subsidiary Astro-Med GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.
The Company has entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the floating-rate foreign currency-denominated term loan borrowing by our Danish Subsidiary and an interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk associated with the variable rate $15.0 million term loan borrowing by the Company.
The cross-currency interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk by converting approximately $8.9 million of the Company’s floating-rate debt denominated in U.S. Dollars on our Danish subsidiary’s books to a fixed-rate debt denominated in Danish Krone for the term of the loan, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate and foreign currency exchange rate changes on future interest expense and principal repayments.
As of April 28, 2018, the total notional amount of the Company’s cross-currency interest rate swap was $7.4 million and is included in other long term liabilities in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet at its fair value amount of $1.2 million.
The interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company on the $15.0 million term loan effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt for the next five years, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate changes on future interest expense.
As of April 28, 2018, the total notional amount of the Company’s interest rate swap was $13.5 million and is included in other assets in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance at its fair value amount of $0.2 million.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” ASU 2014-09 completes the joint effort by the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board to improve financial reporting by creating common revenue recognition guidance for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” ASU 2016-02 supersedes current guidance related to accounting for leases and is intended to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring lessees to recognize assets and liabilities in the balance sheet for operating leases with lease terms greater than twelve months.
No other new accounting pronouncements, issued or effective during the first three months of the current year, have had or are expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Fair value is applied to our financial assets and liabilities including money market funds, available for sale securities, derivative instruments and a contingent consideration liability relating to an earnout payment on future TrojanLabel operating results.
The fair value of the earnout liability incurred in connection with the Company’s acquisition of TrojanLabel was determined using the option approach methodology which includes using significant inputs that are not observable in the market and therefore classified as Level 3.
Key assumptions in estimating the fair value of the contingent consideration liability included (1) the estimated earnout targets over the next seven years of $0.5 million-$1.4 million, (2) the probability of success (achievement of the various contingent events) from 0.0%-0.9% and (3) a risk-adjusted discount rate of approximately 2.68%-4.9% used to adjust the probability-weighted earnout payments to their present value.
At each reporting period, the contingent consideration liability is recorded at its fair value with changes reflected in general and administrative expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion, is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current interest rates at which similar borrowings with the same maturities would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and is classified as Level 3.
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.


item2.txt
Revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $31.5 million, representing a 28.7% increase compared to the previous year first quarter revenue of $24.5 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year first quarter was $19.2 million, an increase of 22.6% over the prior year’s first quarter.
International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $12.3 million, a 39.7% increase over the previous year first quarter and represents 39% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue.
Current year first quarter international revenue includes a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.8 million.
Current year first quarter gross profit was $12.1 million, a 30.1% increase compared to prior year first quarter gross profit of $9.3 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 38.5% reflects a 0.5 percentage point increase from the prior year first quarter gross profit margin of 38.0%.
The higher gross profit and related profit margin for the current quarter compared to prior year is primarily attributable to increased sales and favorable product mix.
The Company reported net income of $0.8 million or $0.12 per diluted share for the first quarter of the current year, which included after-tax income of $0.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year first quarter was $0.5 million or $0.07 per diluted share.
Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 7.0% in the first quarter of the current year, with revenue of $20.0 million compared to $18.6 million in the same period of the prior year.
The current year first quarter also received a strong contribution from the supplies product line revenue which increased 7.2% from the same period in the prior year.
The current quarter increase in supplies revenue is due to the continued increase in demand for digital color printer supplies, which has experienced double-digit growth in the current year first quarter compared to the same period in the prior year.
Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the first quarter were $6.8 million and we had $10.0 million available under our revolving credit facility.
The Credit Agreement also provided for a $10.0 million revolving credit facility available to the Company for general corporate purposes.
The First Amendment amended the existing Credit Agreement to permit the Honeywell Agreement and temporarily increased the amount available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility from $10.0 million to $15.0 million.
The initial upfront payment of $14.6 million for the Honeywell Agreement was paid using borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility.
The Second Amendment provided for a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million, in addition to the revolving credit facility for the Company and the term loan previously borrowed by ANI ApS at the original closing under the Credit Agreement.
The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly-owned German subsidiary Astro-Med GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.
Net cash used by operating activities was $2.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to $0.8 million for the same period of the previous year.
The accounts receivable balance increased to $25.3 million at the end of the first quarter compared to $22.4 at year end and the collection cycle increased to 63 days compared to 55 days at year end.
The inventory balance was $27.7 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $27.6 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 129 days at the end of the current quarter from 124 days at the prior year end.


part2.txt
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.
(a) Employees of the Company delivered 2,383 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.
This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.
(b) The Company’s Chief Executive Officer delivered 456 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.


