ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our strategy for growth, future revenues, earnings, cash flow, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance, and market position, our business strategy, the impact of investment prioritization decisions, product offerings, sales and marketing initiatives, strategic investments, addressing execution challenges, trends in consumer demand affecting our products and markets, trends in the composition of our customer base, our current or future revenue and revenue mix by product, among our lower- and higher-margin products, our new product introductions and by geographic region, our expectations regarding the potential growth opportunities for our products in mature and emerging markets and the enterprise market, our expectations regarding economic conditions in international markets, including China, Russia and Ukraine, our expectations regarding trends in global economic conditions and consumer demand for PCs and mobile devices, tablets, gaming, audio, pointing devices, wearables, remotes and other accessories and computer devices and the interoperability of our products with such third party platforms, our expectations regarding the convergence of markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, our expectations regarding the growth of cloud-based services, our expected reduction in size of our product portfolio and dependence on new products, our competitive position and the effect of pricing, product, marketing and other initiatives by us and our competitors, the potential that our new products will overlap with our current products, our expectations regarding competition from well-established consumer electronics companies in existing and new markets, potential tariffs, their effects and our ability to mitigate their effects, our expectations regarding the recoverability of our goodwill, goodwill impairment charge estimates and the potential for future impairment charges, the impact of our current and proposed product divestitures, changes in our planned divestitures, restructuring of our organizational structure and the timing thereof, our expectations regarding the success of our strategic acquisitions, including integration of acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams, significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates and commodity prices, the impact of new product introductions and product innovation on future performance or anticipated costs and expenses and the timing thereof, cash flows, the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated and available borrowings (including the availability of our uncommitted lines of credit) to fund future cash requirements, our expectations regarding future sales compared to actual sales, our expectations regarding share repurchases, dividend payments and share cancellations, our expectations regarding our future working capital requirements and our anticipated capital expenditures needed to support our product development and expanded operations, our expectations regarding our future tax benefits, tax settlements, the adequacy of our provisions for uncertain tax positions, our expectations regarding our potential indemnification obligations, and the outcome of pending or future legal proceedings and tax audits, our expectations regarding the impact of new accounting pronouncements on our operating results, and our ability to achieve and sustain renewed growth, profitability and future success.
Forward-looking statements also include, among others, those statements including the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,”, "seek", “should,” “will,” and similar language.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual performance to differ materially from that anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled “Risk Factors” in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Overview of Our Company
Logitech is a world leader in designing, manufacturing and marketing products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences.
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
Logitech's brands include Logitech, Logitech G, ASTRO Gaming, Ultimate Ears, Jaybird and Blue Microphones.
Our Company's website is www.logitech.com.
On September 26, 2019, we entered into an agreement to acquire all equity interests of General Workings, Inc. ("Streamlabs") for a total consideration of $89 million in cash, subject to a working capital adjustment, plus an additional earn-out of up to $29 million in stock based on the achievement of certain net revenues for the period beginning on January 1, 2020 and ending on June 30, 2020 (the "Streamlabs Acquisition").
Streamlabs is a leading provider of software and tools for professional streamers.
The Streamlabs Acquisition will supplement our portfolio opportunities.
The transaction is subject to various closing conditions and is expected to close in late October 2019.
From time to time, we may seek to partner with, or acquire when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel, and technologies that complement our strategic direction.
We continually review our product offerings and our strategic direction in light of our profitability targets, competitive conditions, changing consumer trends and the evolving nature of the interface between the consumer and the digital world.
Summary of Financial Results
Our total sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 increased 4% and 5%, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, supported by stronger sales in the Americas and EMEA.
Our sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased 5%, 6%, and 1% in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our sales for the six months ended September 30, 2019 increased 5%, 8%, and 1% in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased 70 basis points to 37.8% from 37.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Our gross margin for the six months ended September 30, 2019 increased 60 basis points to 37.5% from 36.9% for the six months ended September 30, 2018.
Our gross margin for both periods benefited from cost savings, tariff mitigation efforts and product mix, partially offset by unfavorable currency exchange and an increase in U.S.-China tariffs.
We expect a negative impact in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 from these tariffs, net of our ongoing mitigation efforts.
Operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased to $204.0 million compared to $191.0 million in the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Operating expenses were 28.3% of sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 27.6% of sales in the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Operating expenses for the six months ended September 30, 2019 increased to $395.5 million compared to $382.5 million in the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Operating expenses were 29.0% of sales for the six months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 29.4% of sales in the same period of the prior fiscal year.
 Net income for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 was $72.9 million and $118.3 million, respectively, compared to $64.2 million and $102.6 million for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Trends in Our Business
We believe our future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, including gaming, digital music devices, video and computing.
The following discussion represents key trends specific to our market opportunities.
Trends Specific to Our Five Market Opportunities
Business Seasonality, Product Introductions and Acquisitions
We have historically experienced higher sales in our third fiscal quarter ending December 31, compared to other fiscal quarters in our fiscal year, primarily due to the increased consumer demand for our products during the year-end holiday buying season and year-end spending by enterprises.
Additionally, new product introductions and business acquisitions can significantly impact sales, product costs and operating expenses.
Product introductions can also impact our sales to our distribution channels as these channels are filled with new product inventory following a product introduction, and often channel inventory of an earlier model product declines as the next related major product launch approaches.
Sales can also be affected when consumers and distributors anticipate a product introduction or changes in business circumstances.
However, neither historical seasonal patterns nor historical patterns of product introductions should be considered reliable indicators of our future pattern of product introductions, future sales or financial performance.
Swiss Federal Tax Reform
 On May 19, 2019, the Swiss electorate approved TRAF, a major reform to better align the Swiss tax system with international tax standards.
The legislation was subsequently published in the federal register on August 6, 2019 to take effect on January 1, 2020.
As of September 30, 2019, TRAF has not been enacted in all cantons, including the canton of Vaud, as the cantonal legislative procedures are in process.
We have benefited from a longstanding tax ruling from the canton of Vaud through March 31, 2019.
During the second quarter ended September 30, 2019, the canton of Vaud concluded the longstanding cantonal tax ruling will only continue to apply
through December 31, 2019.
We continue to monitor the enactment process and our transitional measures to comply with federal and cantonal tax reform provisions.
We anticipate an increase in our cash tax payments in Switzerland beginning in fiscal year 2020.
Critical Accounting Estimates
 The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, operating right-of-use assets, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs and related breakage when appropriate, accrued sales return liability, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact us in the future, actual results could differ from those estimates.
Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncement adoptions and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies discussed in Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements, there have been no substantial changes in our significant accounting policies during the six months ended September 30, 2019, compared with the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements
Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recent accounting pronouncements adopted and to be adopted.
Impact of Constant Currency
We refer to our sales growth rates excluding the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations as "constant dollar" sales growth rates.
Percentage of constant dollar sales growth is calculated by translating prior period sales in each local currency at the current period’s average exchange rate for that currency and comparing that to current period sales.
Given our global sales presence and the reporting of our financial results in U.S.
Dollars, our financial results could be affected by shifts in currency exchange rates.
See “Results of Operations” for information on the effect of currency exchange rate results on our sales.
If the U.S. Dollar appreciates or depreciates in comparison to other currencies in future periods, this will affect our results of operations in future periods as well.
References to Sales
References to “sales” mean net sales, except as otherwise specified, and the sales growth discussion and sales growth rate percentages are based on U.S.
Dollars, except as otherwise specified.
Sales Denominated in Other Currencies
Although our financial results are reported in U.S.
Dollars, a portion of our sales was generated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, such as the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar, Taiwan New Dollar, British Pound and Australian Dollar.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, approximately 51% of our sales were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
Results of Operations
Net Sales
Sales by Region
The increase in sales in our EMEA region for the three-month ended period presented above was primarily driven by growth in Video Collaboration and Pointing Devices, partially offset by a decline in sales in Tablet and Other Accessories and Mobile Speakers.
The increase in sales in our EMEA region for the six-month period presented above was primarily driven by growth in Video Collaboration, Mobile Speakers, Pointing Devices and Smart Home.
Sales by Product Categories
Pointing Devices
Our Pointing Devices category comprises PC- and Mac-related mice, including trackballs, touchpads and presenters.
Sales of Pointing Devices increased 3% and decreased 1% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increase in sales for the three-month period was primarily driven by growth in cordless mice, partially offset by a decline in corded mice.
The decline in sales for the six-month period was primarily driven by a decrease in corded mice and presentation tools, partially offset by growth in cordless mice.
PC Webcams
Our PC Webcams category comprises PC-based webcams targeted primarily at consumers.
PC Webcams sales increased 2% and decreased 2% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increase in sales for the three-month period was primarily driven by an increase in the sales of our Webcam C260, 1080P Pro Stream Webcam, BRIO 4K Stream Edition and C270i IPTV CAM, partially offset by a decline in sales of our HD Pro Webcam C920 and Webcam C170.
The decrease in sales for the six-month period was primarily driven by a decline in sales of our HD PRO Webcam C920 and Webcam C170, partially offset by an increase in sales of our Webcam C260, 1080P Pro Stream Webcam, BRIO 4K Stream Edition and C270i IPTV CAM.
Our Gaming category comprises gaming mice, keyboards, headsets, gamepads, steering wheels, simulation controllers, console gaming headsets and console gaming controllers.
Gaming sales remained flat for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
Increases in the sales of gaming mice, PC gaming keyboard and console gaming controllers were offset by declines in the sales of our gaming headsets and console gaming headsets for both periods presented above.
Our Video Collaboration category primarily includes Logitech’s ConferenceCams, which combines affordable
enterprise-quality audio and high definition (HD) 1080p video to bring video conferencing to businesses of any size.
Sales of Video Collaboration products increased 57% and 41% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increase for both periods was primarily driven by the sales of our Rally Ultra-HD PTZ Conference Camera introduced in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, an increase in the sales of our MeetUp video conference camera, and our Tap Touch Controller introduced in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
Mobile Speakers
Our Mobile Speakers category is made up entirely of Bluetooth wireless speakers.
Sales of Mobile Speakers decreased 26% and 3% for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The decrease for the three-month period was primarily due to the decline in sales of our BOOM 3, MEGABOOM 3, WONDERBOOM, and BOOM 2 mobile speakers, partially offset by sales of our WONDERBOOM 2 introduced in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
The decrease for the six-month period is primarily due to a decline in sales of our WONDERBOOM, BOOM 2, and MEGABLAST mobile speakers, partially offset by sales of WONDERBOOM 2 and an increase in sales of our BOOM 3 and MEGABOOM mobile speakers.
Our Smart Home category mainly comprises our Harmony line of advanced home entertainment controllers and home security cameras.
Smart Home sales increased 2% and 6% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increase for both periods was primarily due to an increase in the sales of our home security products, partially offset by a decline in sales of our Harmony remote products.
Gross Profit
Gross profit consists of sales less cost of goods sold (which includes materials, direct labor and related overhead costs, costs of manufacturing facilities, royalties, costs of purchasing components from outside suppliers, distribution costs, warranty costs, customer support, shipping and handling costs, outside processing costs and write-down of inventories), amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting effect on inventory.
Operating Expenses
Marketing and Selling
Marketing and selling expenses consist of personnel and related overhead costs, corporate and product marketing, promotions, advertising, trade shows, technical support for customer experiences and facilities costs.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, marketing and selling expenses increased $12.4 million and $20.8 million, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increases were primarily driven by higher advertising and marketing expenses and higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount, partly resulting from the Blue Microphones acquisition.
Research and Development
Research and development expenses consist of personnel and related overhead costs, contractors and outside consultants, supplies and materials, equipment depreciation and facilities costs, all associated with the design and development of new products and enhancements of existing products.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, research and development expenses increased $2.4 million and $5.7 million, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increases were primarily driven by higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount, partly resulting from the Blue Microphones acquisition.
General and Administrative
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead, information technology, and facilities costs for the infrastructure functions such as finance, information systems, executives, human resources, and legal.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, general and administrative expenses decreased $1.2 million and $4.5 million, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The decrease was primarily driven by lower personnel-related costs.
Amortization of Intangible Assets and Acquisition-Related Costs
Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization of acquired intangible assets, including customer relationships and trade names.
Acquisition-related costs include legal expense, due diligence costs, and other professional costs incurred for business acquisitions.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, amortization of intangible assets and acquisition-related costs remained relatively flat compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
During the six months ended September 30, 2019, amortization of intangible assets and acquisition-related costs increased $1.0 million compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily driven by the intangible assets acquired through the Blue Microphones acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, partially offset by a decrease in acquisition-related costs.
Restructuring Charges, Net
 During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we implemented a restructuring plan to streamline and realign our overall organizational structure and reallocate resources to support our long-term growth opportunities.
In July, 2018, our Board of Directors approved additional costs under this restructuring plan, totaling pre-tax charges of approximately $10.0 million to $15.0 million, of which $11.4 million has been recognized cumulatively as of September 30, 2019.
The total charges consisted of cash severance and other personnel costs and are presented as restructuring charges (credit), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company has substantially completed this restructuring plan.
Other Income (Expense), Net
Investment income represents earnings, gains, and losses on trading investments related to a deferred compensation plan offered by one of our subsidiaries.
Currency exchange gain (loss), net relates to balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency in our subsidiaries, as well as to the sale of currencies, and to gains or losses recognized on currency exchange forward contracts.
We do not speculate in currency positions, but we are alert to opportunities to maximize currency exchange gains and minimize currency exchange losses.
Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes
The change in the effective income tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period ended September 30, 2018, was primarily due to the transitional income tax impact in Switzerland.
We have benefited from a longstanding tax ruling from the canton of Vaud through March 31, 2019.
During the second quarter, the canton of Vaud concluded the longstanding cantonal tax ruling will only continue to apply through December 31, 2019.
The transitional income tax impact, which represents income tax provision at the current full statutory income tax rate of 13.63% without taking account of the tax reform yet to be enacted, resulted in a tax benefit of $5.9 million in the three-month period ended September 30, 2019.
In addition, there was a discrete tax benefit of $4.0 million from adjusting deferred tax assets and liabilities in Switzerland in the three months ended September 30, 2019.
The change in the effective income tax rate for the six months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to the mix of income and losses in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate and the transitional income tax impact in Switzerland discussed above.
In the six months ended September 30, 2019, there was a discrete tax benefit of $1.7 million from adjusting deferred tax assets and liabilities in Switzerland.
Furthermore, there were discrete tax benefits of $6.7 million and $1.8 million from the recognition of excess tax benefits in the United States and reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations, respectively, in the six-month period ended September 30, 2019, compared with $9.0 million and $1.4 million, respectively, in the six-month period ended September 30, 2018.
As of September 30, 2019 and March 31, 2019, the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits due to uncertain tax positions were $78.9 million and $76.5 million, respectively, all of which would affect the effective income tax rate if recognized.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash Balances, Available Borrowings, and Capital Resources
As of September 30, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $574.5 million, compared to $604.5 million as of March 31, 2019.
As of September 30, 2019, 48% of the cash and cash equivalents were held in Switzerland and 12% held in Hong Kong and China.
We do not expect to incur any material adverse tax impact except for what has been recognized, or be significantly inhibited by any country in which we do business from the repatriation of funds to Switzerland, our home domicile.
 The decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the six months ended September 30, 2019, was primarily due to payment of cash dividends, purchases of property, plant and equipment, tax withholdings related to settlements of restricted stock units and shares repurchased under our share buyback program, partially offset by proceeds from exercises of stock options and purchase rights and net cash provided by operating activities.
As of September 30, 2019, our working capital was $622.4 million, compared to $632.6 million as of March 31, 2019.
The decrease was primarily driven by lower cash and cash equivalents and higher accounts payable, partially offset by higher accounts receivable, net, higher inventories, higher other current assets and lower accrued and other current liabilities.
Our working capital increased by $183.8 million compared to $438.6 million as of September 30, 2018, which was primarily driven by higher cash and cash equivalents, higher accounts receivable, net, lower accounts payable, and lower accrued and other current liabilities, partially offset by lower inventories.
We had several uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit aggregating $77.5 million as of September 30, 2019.
There are no financial covenants under these lines of credit with which we must comply.
As of September 30, 2019, we had outstanding bank guarantees of $20.6 million under these lines of credit.
DSO for the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by 2 days to 58 days, compared to 60 days for the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to timing of customer payments and claims.
DPO for the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by 8 days, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to the timing of purchases and related payments.
ITO for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased to 5.3 compared to 4.9 in the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to higher sales growth (hence higher cost of goods sold) than inventory increase.
If we are not successful in launching and phasing in our new products, or market competition increases, or we are not able to sell the new products at the prices planned, it could have a material impact on our sales, gross profit margin, operating results including operating cash flow, and inventory turnover in the future.
During the six months ended September 30, 2019, we generated $143.0 million of cash from operating activities.
Our main sources of operating cash flows were from net income, after adding back non-cash expenses of depreciation, amortization and share-based compensation expense, and from changes in operating assets and liabilities.
The increase in accounts receivable, net was primarily driven by growth and timing of customer payments and claims.
The increase in inventories was primarily driven by the expectation of increased sales for the holidays in the third quarter.
The increase in accounts payable was primarily driven by the timing of purchases and related payments.
Net cash used in investing activities was $18.6 million, primarily due to $18.1 million of purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Net cash used in financing activities was $150.9 million, primarily due to $124.2 million payment of cash dividend, $15.1 million used for repurchases of our registered shares, and $20.9 million tax withholdings related to net share settlements of restricted stock units, partially offset by $9.3 million in proceeds received from exercises of stock options and purchase rights.
During the six months ended September 30, 2019, there was a $3.6 million loss from effect of currency exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents, compared to a loss of $9.2 million during the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The loss from effect of currency exchange rate changes during the six months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily due to the weakening of the Euro, Chinese Renminbi and Brazilian Real against the U.S.Dollar by 3%, 5%, 7% respectively.
The loss from effect of currency exchange rate changes during the six months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to the weakening of the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Brazilian Real, and Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar by 6%, 9%, 18% and 6%, respectively, during the period.
Cash Outlook
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, cash flow generated from operations and, to a much lesser extent, capital markets and borrowings.
Our future working capital requirements and capital expenditures may increase to support investment in product innovations and growth opportunities, or to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies.
On September 26, 2019, we entered into an agreement to acquire all equity interests of Streamlabs for a total consideration of $89 million in cash, subject to a working capital adjustment, plus an additional earn-out of up to $29 million in stock based on the achievement of certain net revenues for the period beginning on January 1, 2020 and ending on June 30, 2020.
The transaction is subject to various closing conditions and is expected to close in late October 2019.
In fiscal year 2020, we paid a cash dividend of CHF 121.8 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $124.2 million) out of retained earnings available at the end of fiscal year 2019.
In fiscal year 2019, we paid a cash dividend of CHF 110.7 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $114.0 million) out of retained earnings available at the end of fiscal year 2018.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our shareholders.
In March 2017, our Board of Directors approved our 2017 share buyback program, which authorizes us to purchase up to $250.0 million of our outstanding shares over a three-year period.
The program was approved by the Swiss Takeover Board in May 2017.
Although we enter into trading plans for systematic repurchases (e.g., 10b5-1 trading plans) from time to time, our share buyback program provides us with the opportunity to make repurchases during periods of favorable market conditions and is expected to remain in effect for a period of three years.
Shares may be repurchased from time to time on the open market, through block trades or otherwise.
Opportunistic purchases may be started or stopped at any time without prior notice depending on market conditions and other factors.
As of September 30, 2019, $172.4 million is still available for repurchase under the 2017 share buyback program.
If we do not generate sufficient operating cash flows to support our operations and future planned cash requirements, our operations could be harmed and our access to credit could be restricted or eliminated.
However, we believe that the trend of our historical cash flow generation, our projections of future operations and our available cash balances will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months.
Operating Leases Obligation
We lease facilities under operating leases, certain of which require us to pay property taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
Operating leases for facilities are generally renewable at our option and usually include escalation clauses linked to inflation.
The remaining terms of our non-cancelable operating leases expire in various years through 2031.
Purchase Commitments
As of September 30, 2019, we had non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and other suppliers, the majority of which are expected to be fulfilled within the next 12 months.
Non-cancelable purchase commitments for capital expenditures primarily relate to commitments for tooling for new and existing products, computer hardware, leasehold and improvements.
We expect to continue making capital expenditures in the future to support product development activities and ongoing and expanded operations.
Although open purchase commitments are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us to reschedule or adjust our requirements based on business needs prior to delivery of goods or performance of services.
Other Contractual Obligations and Commitments
For further detail about our contractual obligations and commitments, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.
Indemnifications
We indemnify certain suppliers and customers for losses arising from matters such as intellectual property disputes and product safety defects, subject to certain restrictions.
The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
As of September 30, 2019, no amounts have been accrued for indemnification provisions.
We do not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under our indemnification arrangements.
We also indemnify our current and former directors and certain current and former officers.
Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies.
We are unable to reasonably estimate the maximum amount that could be payable under these arrangements because these exposures are not capped, the obligations are conditional in nature, and the facts and circumstances involved in any situation that might arise are variable.
Legal Proceedings
From time to time we are involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business.
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them.
Based on currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.
However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period.
Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors.
Any failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims, could adversely affect our business.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
Share Repurchases
 We did not repurchase any of our registered shares during the three months ended September 30, 2019.
As of September 30, 2019, $172.4 million is still available for repurchase under the 2017 share buyback program.
