ITEM 3.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market Risk
Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments.
As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates and interest rates.
These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.
Currency Exchange Rates
We report our results in U.S.
Dollars.
Changes in currency exchange rates compared to the U.S. Dollar can have a material impact on our results when the financial statements of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated into U.S.
Dollars.
The functional currency of our operations is primarily the U.S. Dollar.
Certain operations use the Swiss Franc or the local currency of the country as their functional currencies.
Accordingly, unrealized currency gains or losses resulting from the translation of net assets or liabilities denominated in other currencies to the U.S. Dollar are accumulated in the cumulative translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income (loss) in shareholders' equity.
We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk as we transact business in multiple currencies, including exposure related to anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
We transact business in over 30 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to operations are the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Australian Dollar, Taiwanese Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen and Mexican Peso.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018, approximately 49% of our sales were in non-U.S. denominated currencies, with 20% of our sales denominated in Euro.
The mix of our operating expenses by currency is significantly different from the mix of our sales, with a larger portion denominated in U.S. Dollar and less denominated in Euro and other currencies.
A strengthening U.S. Dollar has more unfavorable impact on our sales compare to the favorable impact on our operating expense, resulting in an adverse impact on our operating results.
Long currency positions represent net assets being held in the transaction currency while short currency positions represent net liabilities being held in the transaction currency.
Our principal manufacturing operations are located in China, with much of our component and raw material costs transacted in Chinese Renminbi.
As of June 30, 2018, net liabilities held in CNY totaled $9.7 million.
Derivatives
We enter into​ cash flow hedge​ contracts to ​protect​ against exchange rate exposure​ of ​forecasted inventory purchases.
These hedging contracts mature within four months.
Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the hedges are deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, at which time the gains or losses are reclassified to cost of goods sold.
Cash flows from such hedges are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
As of June 30, 2018 the notional amounts of currency exchange forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases were $72.4 million.
As of March 31, 2018, there were no currency forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases.
Deferred realized and unrealized gain and loss was not material as of June 30, 2018.
We also enter into currency exchange forward and swap contracts to reduce the short-term effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain currency receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries.
These contracts generally mature within one month.
The primary risk
managed by using forward and swap contracts is the currency exchange rate risk.
The gains or losses on these currency exchange contracts are recognized in earnings based on the changes in fair value.
Cash flows from these contracts are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
The notional amounts of currency exchange contracts outstanding as of June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018 relating to foreign currency receivables or payables were $60.5 million and $47.2 million, respectively.
Open forward and swap contracts as of June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018 consisted of contracts in Mexican Pesos, Japanese Yen, Taiwanese Dollars, Canadian Dollars and Australian Dollars to be settled at future dates at pre-determined exchange rates.
ITEM 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES
Not applicable.
