ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our strategy for growth, future revenues, earnings, cash flow, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance, and market position, our business strategy, the impact of investment prioritization decisions, product offerings, sales and marketing initiatives, strategic investments, addressing execution challenges, trends in consumer demand affecting our products and markets, trends in the composition of our customer base, our current or future revenue and revenue mix by product, among our lower- and higher-margin products, our new product introductions and by geographic region, our expectations regarding the potential growth opportunities for our products in mature and emerging markets and the enterprise market, our expectations regarding economic conditions in international markets, including China, Russia and Ukraine, our expectations regarding trends in global economic conditions and consumer demand for PCs and mobile devices, tablets, gaming, audio, pointing devices, wearables, remotes and other accessories and computer devices and the interoperability of our products with such third party platforms, our expectations regarding the convergence of markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, our expectations regarding the growth of cloud-based services, our expected reduction in size of our product portfolio and dependence on new products, our competitive position and the effect of pricing, product, marketing and other initiatives by us and our competitors, the potential that our new products will overlap with our current products, our expectations regarding competition from well-established consumer electronics companies in existing and new markets, potential tariffs, their effects and our ability to mitigate their effects, our expectations regarding the recoverability of our goodwill, goodwill impairment charge estimates and the potential for future impairment charges, the impact of our current and proposed product divestitures, changes in our planned divestitures, restructuring of our organizational structure and the timing thereof, our expectations regarding the success of our strategic acquisitions, including integration of acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams, significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates and commodity prices, the impact of new product introductions and product innovation on future performance or anticipated costs and expenses and the timing thereof, resolution of our North American distribution center issues, cash flows, the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated and available borrowings (including the availability of our uncommitted lines of credit) to fund future cash requirements, our expectations regarding future sales compared to actual sales, our expectations regarding share repurchases, dividend payments and share cancellations, our expectations regarding our future working capital requirements and our anticipated capital expenditures needed to support our product development and expanded operations, our expectations regarding our future tax benefits, tax settlements, the adequacy of our provisions for uncertain tax positions, our expectations regarding our potential indemnification obligations, and the outcome of pending or future legal proceedings and tax audits, our expectations regarding the impact of new accounting pronouncements on our operating results, and our ability to achieve and sustain renewed growth, profitability and future success.
Forward-looking statements also include, among others, those statements including the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,”, "seek", “should,” “will,” and similar language.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual performance to differ materially from that anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled “Risk Factors” in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Overview of Our Company
Logitech is a world leader in designing, manufacturing and marketing products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences.
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
Logitech's brands include Logitech, Ultimate Ears, Jaybird, Blue Microphones, Logitech G and ASTRO Gaming.
Our Company's website is www.logitech.com.
From time to time, we may seek to partner with, or acquire when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel, and technologies that complement our strategic direction.
We continually review our product offerings and our strategic direction in light of our profitability targets, competitive conditions, changing consumer trends and the evolving nature of the interface between the consumer and the digital world.
 On August 21, 2018 (the "Acquisition Date"), we acquired all equity interests in Blue Microphones Holding Corporation ("Blue Microphones") for a total consideration of $134.8 million in cash (the "Blue Microphones Acquisition"), which includes a working capital adjustment and repayment of a debt on behalf of Blue Microphones.
Blue Microphones is a leading audio manufacturer that designs and produces microphones, headphones, recording tools, and accessories for audio professionals, musicians and consumers.
The Blue Microphones Acquisition is consistent with Logitech's merger and acquisition strategy and will supplement the Company's portfolio in the microphones market.
For the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, Blue Microphones contributed three percentage point and two percentage points, respectively, of the net sales growth rate.
Summary of Financial Results
Our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 increased 6% and 10%, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, supported by stronger net sales in Asia Pacific.
Our net sales for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased 1%, 6%, and 18% in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Our net sales for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 increased 7%, 4% and 23% in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Given our global sales presence and the reporting of our financial results in U.S.
Dollars, our financial results could be affected by shifts in currency exchange rates.
See “Results of Operations” for information on the effect of currency exchange results on our net sales.
If the U.S. Dollar becomes stronger or weaker in comparison to other currencies, it will also affect our results of operations in future periods.
Our gross margin for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased 360 basis points to 37.5% from 33.9% for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Our gross margin benefited from favorable mix and cost reduction efforts, supply chain efficiencies and Topic 606 adoption, partially offset by U.S. tariffs implemented in July 2018 for certain of our products imported into the United States.
In addition, an increase in logistics costs, including additional costs from the transition of the distribution center in North America in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018, negatively affected the gross margin of that prior year period by approximately 150 basis points.
Our gross margin for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 increased 190 basis points to 37.2% from 35.3% for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to supply chain efficiencies, cost reduction efforts, favorable exchange rates, tariff duty refund, and Topic 606 adoption, partially offset by an increase in tariffs.
In addition, additional costs from the transition of the distribution center in North America in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 negatively affected the gross margin of the prior year period.
We continue to implement various initiatives to mitigate the impact of recently adopted and announced U.S. tariffs, such as imports to the U.S. earlier than usual, supply chain or production shifts, and potential pricing adjustments.
As some of these mitigating initiatives take time to implement, there could be an adverse impact to our gross margin in the future periods as we adjust to tariffs and other trade restrictions.
Operating expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2018 were $200.6 million, or 23.2% of net sales, compared to $175.3 million, or 21.6% of net sales, in the same period of the prior fiscal year.
Operating expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 were $583.1 million, or 26.9% of net sales, compared to $506.4 million, or 25.6% of net sales, in the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase in operating expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2018, was primarily driven by $13.0 million higher personnel-related cost primarily due to additional headcount from business acquisition and increased performance-based variable
compensation and $2.6 million higher advertising and marketing expenses to support our new product introductions.The increase in operating expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 was primarily driven by $45.2 million higher personnel-related cost due to restructuring charges in the current period, increased performance-based variable compensation and additional headcount from business acquisitions, $12.3 million higher advertising and marketing expenses to support our new product introductions, and a $4.9 million non-recurring credit for change in fair value of contingent consideration from an acquisition recorded in fiscal year 2018.
 Net income for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $112.8 million and $215.5 million, respectively, compared to $80.8 million and $174.1 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Trends in Our Business
We believe our future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, including gaming, digital music devices, video and computing.
The following discussion represents key trends specific to our market opportunities.
Trends Specific to Our Five Market Opportunities
Business Seasonality, Product Introductions and Acquisitions
We have historically experienced higher net sales in our third fiscal quarter ending December 31, compared to other fiscal quarters in our fiscal year, due in part to seasonal holiday demand.
Additionally, new product
introductions and business acquisitions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses.
Product introductions can also impact our net sales to our distribution channels as these channels are filled with new product inventory following a product introduction, and often channel inventory of an earlier model product declines as the next related major product launch approaches.
Net sales can also be affected when consumers and distributors anticipate a product introduction or changes in business circumstances.
However, neither historical seasonal patterns nor historical patterns of product introductions should be considered reliable indicators of our future pattern of product introductions, future net sales or financial performance.
Critical Accounting Estimates
 The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, goodwill and intangible assets from business acquisitions, contingent consideration related to business acquisitions, and net sales and expenses.
We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact us in the future, actual results could differ from those estimates.
Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Other than the recent accounting pronouncement adoptions discussed below and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies discussed in Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements, there have been no substantial changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, compared with the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Adoption of New Accounting Guidance
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No.
2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09" or “Topic 606”) which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements under ASC 605 (“Topic 605”), Revenue Recognition.
ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
Under the new guidance, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The new standard requires reporting companies to disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
On April 1, 2018, we adopted the new standard and all related amendments using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not completed as of April 1, 2018.
Results for reporting periods beginning after March 31, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with historic accounting standards under Topic 605.
Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further details of the impact of adoption of Topic 606.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, "Financial Instruments-Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Subtopic 825-10)" ("ASU 2016-01").
ASU 2016-01 requires entities to measure equity instruments at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value within the statement of operations.
We adopted ASU 2016-01 effective April 1, 2018 on a prospective basis for our privately held strategic equity securities without readily determinable fair values.
We elected the measurement alternative to record these investments at cost and to adjust for impairments and observable price changes with a same or similar security from the same issuer within the statement of operations.
The adoption of ASU 2016-01 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
transfers until the transferred asset is sold to an unrelated party or recovered through use.
However, this standard does not apply to intra-entity transfer of inventory.
We adopted this standard effective April 1, 2018 on a modified retrospective basis, and the adoption of ASU 2016-16 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recent accounting pronouncements to be adopted.
Impact of Constant Currency
We refer to our net sales growth rates excluding the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations as "constant dollar" sales growth rates.
Percentage of constant dollar sales growth is calculated by translating prior period sales in each local currency at the current period’s average exchange rate for that currency and comparing that to current period sales.
Given our global sales presence and the reporting of our financial results in U.S.
Dollars, our financial results could be affected by shifts in currency exchange rates.
See “Results of Operations” for information on the effect of currency exchange rate results on our net sales.
If the U.S. Dollar appreciates or depreciates in comparison to other currencies in future periods, this will affect our results of operations in future periods as well.
Sales are net sales and the sales growth discussion and sales growth rate percentages are in U.S.
Dollars, except as otherwise specified.
Sales Denominated in Other Currencies
Although our financial results are reported in U.S.
Dollars, a portion of our sales was generated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, such as the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar, Taiwan New
Dollar, British Pound and Australian Dollar.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, approximately 50% of our net sales were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
Results of Operations
Net Sales
Net Sales by Region
The increase in net sales in our EMEA region for the three-month and nine-month periods presented above was primarily driven by growth in Gaming, Video Collaboration, Keyboards and Combos, Pointing Devices, PC Webcams, and Tablet and Other Accessories, partially offset by a decline in sales for Mobile Speakers and Smart Home.
The increase in net sales in our Asia Pacific region during the three-month and nine-month periods presented above was primarily driven by growth in Gaming, Keyboards and Combos, Video Collaboration, and Pointing Devices, partially offset by a decline in sales for Mobile Speakers.
Net Sales by Product Categories
Pointing Devices
Our Pointing Devices category comprises PC and Mac-related mice, touchpads and presenters.
Net sales of Pointing Devices increased 6% and 5% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increase for both periods was primarily driven by an increase in sales for cordless mice, led by strong contribution from MX Vertical Wireless Mouse introduced in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Increases in sales for MX Master 2S Wireless Mouse and B220 Silent Mouse also contributed to the sales increase for both periods.
PC Webcams
Our PC Webcams category comprises PC-based webcams targeted primarily at consumers.
PC Webcams net sales increased 21% and 13% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increase in both periods was primarily driven by increases in sales of our HD Pro Webcam C920 and 1080P Pro Stream Webcam.
Our Video Collaboration category primarily includes products which combine audio and video and other products that can connect any-sized user groups.
Net sales of Video Collaboration products increased 60% and 49% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increase for both periods was primarily driven by an increase in sales for our MeetUp video conference camera, BRIO 4K Pro Webcam, high end business webcams and the introduction of our Rally Ultra-HD PTZ Conference Camera in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
PTZ Pro 2 also contributed to the sales increase for the nine months ended December 31, 2018.
Mobile Speakers
Our Mobile Speakers category is made up entirely of Bluetooth wireless speakers.
Net sales of Mobile Speakers decreased 35% and 31% for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The decrease for both periods was primarily due to declines in sales for our existing Ultimate Ears speakers.
The decrease was partially offset by sales from the introductions of our Ultimate Ears MEGABOOM 3 and BOOM 3 mobile speakers in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Our Gaming category comprises gaming mice, keyboards, headsets, gamepads, steering wheels, Saitek simulation controllers and ASTRO console gaming headsets.
Gaming net sales increased 23% and 40% for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increase for both periods was primarily driven by an increase in sales of our core PC gaming products, and ASTRO console gaming headsets, which benefited from the growing gaming market, growth in eSports, expansions in new channels and regions, and expansion in product portfolios.
The increase for the nine-month period was also driven by the fact that the acquisition of ASTRO closed on August 11, 2017, in the middle of our fiscal year 2018 second quarter, resulting in a partial comparative period impact.
The growth in both periods was partially offset by a slight decline in our simulation products.
Our Smart Home category includes our Harmony line of advanced home entertainment controllers and home security cameras.
Smart Home net sales decreased 49% during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The decrease for both periods was primarily due to declines in sales of our Harmony remotes and home video products.
Gross Profit
Gross profit consists of net sales less cost of goods sold (which includes materials, direct labor and related overhead costs, costs of manufacturing facilities, royalties, costs of purchasing components from outside suppliers, distribution costs, warranty costs, customer support, shipping and handling costs, outside processing costs and write-down of inventories), amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting effect on inventory.
Operating Expenses
Marketing and Selling
Marketing and selling expenses consist of personnel and related overhead cost, corporate and product marketing, promotions, advertising, trade shows, customer and technical support, and facilities costs.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, marketing and selling expenses increased $16.1 million and $42.7 million, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year.
The increases were primarily driven by higher advertising and marketing expenses to support our new products, and higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount and increased performance-based variable compensation.
 Research and Development
Research and development expenses consist of personnel and related overhead costs, contractors and outside consultants, supplies and materials, equipment depreciation and facilities costs, all associated with the design and development of new products and enhancements of existing products.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, research and development expenses increased $6.2 million and $13.0 million, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year.
The increase was primarily driven by higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount from business acquisitions, increased performance-based variable compensation, and higher investment in new product developments.
General and Administrative
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead, information technology, and facilities costs for the infrastructure functions such as finance, information systems, executives, human resources, and legal.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, general and administrative expenses increased $2.2 million in each period, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year.
The increase for the three-month period was primarily driven by higher consulting cost from merger and acquisition activities.
The increase for the nine-month period was primarily driven by increased performance-based variable compensation.
Amortization of Intangible Assets and Acquisition-Related Costs
Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization of acquired intangible assets, including customer relationships and trade names.
The increase in amortization of intangible assets during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared with the same periods of the prior fiscal year was primarily driven by the acquisition of ASTRO in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 and the acquisition of Blue Microphones in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Acquisition-related costs include legal expense, due diligence costs, and other professional costs incurred for business acquisitions.
Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration for Business Acquisition
There was no contingent consideration for business acquisition during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, the fair value of the contingent consideration for business acquisition decreased $4.9 million due to the agreement we reached with the sellers of Jaybird LLC and lower-than-expected net sales of Jaybird products, partially offset by the change in the time value of money.
Restructuring Charges (Credits), Net
 During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we implemented a restructuring plan to streamline and realign our overall organizational structure and reallocate resources to support our long-term growth opportunities.
In July, 2018, our Board of Directors approved additional costs under this restructuring plan, totaling pre-tax charges of approximately $10.0 million to $15.0 million, of which $9.8 million was recognized during the first nine months of fiscal year 2019.
The total charges consisted of cash severance and other personnel costs and are presented as restructuring charges (credits), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
We expect to substantially complete this restructuring within the next six months.
Other Expense, Net
Investment income (loss) related to a deferred compensation plan represents earnings, gains, and losses on trading investments related to a deferred compensation plan offered by one of our subsidiaries.
Currency exchange loss, net relate to balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency in our subsidiaries, as well as to the sale of currencies, and to gains or losses recognized on currency exchange forward contracts.
We do not speculate in currency positions, but we are alert to opportunities to maximize currency exchange gains and minimize currency exchange losses.
Provision for Income Taxes
The changes in the effective income tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, compared to the same periods ended December 31, 2017, were primarily due to the mix of income and losses in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate and the provisional income tax impact from the Tax Act as of December 31, 2017.
We recorded a provisional income tax charge of $19.9 million from the estimated remeasurement of federal deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2017 to reflect the effects of the enacted changes in tax rate and an income tax benefit of $4.1 million from assessment of valuation allowance
against tax credits.
Furthermore, in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, there were discrete tax benefits of $0.9 million and $2.3 million, respectively, from the reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations.
In the same periods ended December 31, 2017, the tax benefits from reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations were $6.0 million and $7.9 million, respectively.
We completed our review of previously recorded provisional income tax amounts related to net deferred tax assets impacted by the Tax Act and concluded that additional information, interpretation and guidance that became available during the twelve-month measurement period did not alter our application of tax law in remeasuring gross deferred tax assets and related valuation allowance.
There were no adjustments deemed necessary in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018.
As of December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits due to uncertain tax positions were $74.6 million and $69.1 million, respectively, all of which would affect the effective income tax rate if recognized.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash Balances, Available Borrowings, and Capital Resources
As of December 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $584.5 million, compared to $641.9 million as of March 31, 2018.
As of December 31, 2018, 63% of the cash and cash equivalents was held in Switzerland, 15% held in Hong Kong and China and 13% held in the United Kingdom.
We do not expect to incur any material adverse tax impact except for what has been recognized, or be significantly inhibited by any country in which we do business from the repatriation of funds to Switzerland, our home domicile.
 The decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the nine months ended December 31, 2018, was primarily due to the cash paid for the Blue Microphones Acquisition (see Note 2 to the condensed consolidated financial statements), payment of cash dividends, purchases of property, plant and equipment, tax withholdings related to settlements of restricted stock units and the purchases of our shares, partially offset by proceeds from exercises of stock options and purchase rights and net cash provided by operating activities.
As of December 31, 2018, our working capital was $569.5 million, compared to $597.4 million as of March 31, 2018.
The decrease was primarily driven by higher accounts payable, higher accruals and lower cash and cash equivalents offset by higher accounts receivable, net and inventories.
Our working capital increased by $23.5 million compared to $546.0 million as of December 31, 2017, which was primarily driven by higher accounts receivable, net, inventories and cash and cash equivalents, partially offset by higher accruals.
We had several uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit aggregating $79.4 million as of December 31, 2018.
There are no financial covenants under these lines of credit with which we must comply.
As of December 31, 2018, we had outstanding bank guarantees of $30.1 million under these lines of credit.
DSO for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased by 11 days to 50 days, as compared to 39 days for the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The adoption of Topic 606 negatively impacted our DSO for the three months ended December 31, 2018 by 14 days, mainly as a result of changes in the balance sheet presentation of certain reserve balances previously shown net within accounts receivable which are now presented as liabilities.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have an impact over the total cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities.
Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the details of the adoption impact of Topic 606.
Timing of customer payments and claims also decreased DSO by 3 days.
DPO for the three months ended December 31, 2018 remained constant compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year.
ITO for the three months ended December 31, 2018 was lower, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, mainly due to an increase in inventories in the three months ended December 31, 2018, relating to new product introductions, higher inventory balances to support tariff impact mitigation and inventory from the Blue Microphones acquisition.
If we are not successful in launching and phasing in our new products, or market competition increases during the current fiscal year, or we are not able to sell the new products at the prices planned, it could have a material impact on our net sales, gross profit margin, operating results including operating cash flow, and inventory turnover in the future.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we generated $273.4 million of cash from operating activities.
Our main sources of operating cash flows were net income after adding back non-cash expenses of depreciation, amortization, and share-based compensation expense, and changes in operating assets and liabilities.
The increase in accounts receivable, net, excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 at the adoption date was primarily due to higher business volumes, timing of sales and customer payments.
The increase in inventories was primarily driven by inventories for new product introductions and higher inventory balances to support tariff impact mitigation.
We strategically invested in our inventory ahead of the recent tariff implementation.
The increase in accounts payable were primarily driven by the higher inventory purchases.
The increase in accrued and current liabilities excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 at the adoption date were primarily driven by higher sales reserve liability due to higher business volumes.
Net cash used in investing activities was $165.8 million, primarily due to the $133.9 million payment of the net cash purchase price for the Blue Microphones Acquisition and $28.3 million of purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Net cash used in financing activities was $155.4 million, primarily for the $114.0 million payment of cash dividend, $22.5 million in repurchases of our registered shares, and $29.1 million tax withholdings related to net share settlements of restricted stock units, partially offset by $10.1 million in proceeds received from exercises of stock options and purchase rights.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, there was a $9.7 million loss from currency exchange rate effect on cash and cash equivalents, compared to a gain of $1.7 million during the same period of the prior fiscal year.
The loss from currency exchange rate effect during the nine months ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due to the weakening of the Euro and Chinese Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar by 7% and 8%, respectively, during the period.
The gain from currency translation exchange effect during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was primarily due to the strengthening of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar by 12% during the period.
Cash Outlook
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, cash flow generated from operations and, to a much lesser extent, capital markets and borrowings.
Our future working capital requirements and capital expenditures may increase to support investment in product innovations and growth opportunities, or to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies.
In fiscal year 2019, we paid a cash dividend of CHF 110.7 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $114.0 million) out of retained earnings.
In fiscal year 2018, we paid a cash dividend of CHF100.0 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $104.2 million) out of retained earnings.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our shareholders.
In March 2017, our Board of Directors approved our 2017 share buyback program, which authorizes us to purchase up to $250.0 million of our outstanding shares over a three-year period.
The new program was approved by the Swiss Takeover Board in May 2017.
Although we enter into trading plans for systematic repurchases (e.g., 10b5-1 trading plans) from time to time, our share buyback program provides us with the opportunity to make repurchases during periods of favorable market conditions and is expected to remain in effect for a period of three years.
Shares may be repurchased from time to time on the open market, through block trades or otherwise.
Opportunistic purchases may be started or stopped at any time without prior notice depending on market conditions and other factors.
As of December 31, 2018, $197.4 million is still available for repurchase under the 2017 share buyback program.
The annual bonus is paid in the first quarter of the following fiscal year, and the operating cash flow for that period is negatively affected as a result.
If we do not generate sufficient operating cash flows to support our operations and future planned cash requirements, our operations could be harmed and our access to credit could be restricted or eliminated.
However, we believe that the trend of our historical cash flow generation, our projections of future operations and our available cash balances will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months.
Operating Leases Obligation
We lease facilities under operating leases, certain of which require us to pay property taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
Operating leases for facilities are generally renewable at our option and usually include escalation clauses linked to inflation.
The remaining terms of our non-cancelable operating leases expire in various years through 2030.
Purchase Commitments
As of December 31, 2018, we had non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and other suppliers, the majority of which are expected to be fulfilled within the next 12 months.
Non-cancelable purchase commitments for capital expenditures primarily relate to commitments for tooling for new and existing products, computer hardware, leasehold and improvements.
We expect to continue making capital expenditures in the future to support product development activities and ongoing and expanded operations.
Although open purchase commitments are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us to reschedule or adjust our requirements based on business needs prior to delivery of goods or performance of services.
Other Contractual Obligations and Commitments
For further detail about our contractual obligations and commitments, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.
Guarantees
Logitech Europe S.A., one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, guaranteed payments of certain third-party contract manufacturers' purchase obligations.
As of December 31, 2018, the maximum amount of this guarantee was $3.8 million.
Indemnifications
We indemnify certain suppliers and customers for losses arising from matters such as intellectual property disputes and product safety defects, subject to certain restrictions.
The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
As of December 31, 2018, no amounts have been accrued for indemnification provisions.
We do not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under our indemnification arrangements.
We also indemnify our current and former directors and certain current and former officers.
Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies.
We are unable to reasonably estimate the maximum amount that could be payable under these arrangements because these exposures are not capped, the obligations are conditional in nature, and the facts and circumstances involved in any situation that might arise are variable.
Legal Proceedings
From time to time we are involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business.
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them.
Based on currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.
However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period.
Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors.
Any failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims, could adversely affect our business.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
Share Repurchases
