fls.txt



item1.txt
We have prepared the accompanying financial data as of October 26, 2019 and for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 27, 2019 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 27, 2019.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to these investments, if any, are presented as a separate component from our equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The share of earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
Leases In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 842, Leases, a new standard requiring lessees to recognize operating and finance lease liabilities on the balance sheet, as well as corresponding right-of-use (ROU) assets.
This standard also made some changes to lessor accounting and aligns key aspects of the lessor accounting model with the revenue recognition standard.
In addition, new disclosures are required to enable users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
ASC 842 requires adoption using the modified retrospective approach, with the option of applying the requirements of the standard either i) retrospectively to each prior comparative reporting period presented, or ii) retrospectively at the beginning of the period of adoption.
We adopted this standard at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2020 and applied it at the beginning of the period of adoption and did not restate prior periods.
We adopted ASC 842 on July 28, 2019 which resulted in the recognition of $1.2 billion of operating lease ROU assets included in other assets and $1.2 billion of operating lease liabilities included in other current liabilities and other long-term liabilities.
Our ROU lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments related to the lease.
The residual value on our leased equipment is determined at the inception of the lease based on an analysis of estimates of the value of equipment, market factors and historical customer behavior.
Our leases generally provide an end-of-term option for the customer to extend the lease under mutually-agreed terms, return the leased equipment, or purchase the equipment for either the then-market value of the equipment or a pre-determined purchase price.


item2.txt
Total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased 2% not including revenue from the SPVSS business in the prior year period.
Total gross margin increased by 2.0 percentage points, driven by productivity improvements and product mix, and to a lesser extent, partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing.
Diluted earnings per share decreased by 12%, driven by a 18% decrease in net income and a decrease in diluted share count of 341 million shares.
The “BRICM” countries experienced a product revenue decline of 30% in the aggregate, driven by decreased product revenue in the emerging countries of Mexico, India, China, Russia and Brazil of 41%, 37%, 33%, 8% and 7%, respectively.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced a product revenue decline in the service provider market and a slight decline in the enterprise market.
From a product category perspective, total product revenue, not including SPVSS products in the prior year period, increased 1% year over year.
The increase was driven by solid product revenue growth in Security and Applications of 22% and 6%, respectively, and was offset by a product revenue decrease in Infrastructure Platforms of 1%.


item3.txt
At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the pending United Kingdom “Brexit” withdrawal from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment.
For example, emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in product orders in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and in certain prior periods.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.
Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty.
In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs.


