fls.txt



item1.txt
We have prepared the accompanying financial data as of January 26, 2019 and for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 28, 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to these investments, if any, are presented as a separate component from our equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The share of earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of January 26, 2019; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018; the statements of cash flows for the first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018; and the statements of equity for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, as applicable, have been made.
The results of operations for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full fiscal year or any future periods.
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
The underlying principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, ASC 606 requires incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services to which the assets relates.
We enter into contracts with customers that can include various combinations of products and services which are generally distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
We determine whether arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether our commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract.
In transactions where we deliver hardware or software, we are typically the principal and we record revenue and costs of goods sold on a gross basis.
We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised goods or services in a contract with a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.


item2.txt
NM - Not meaningful; we recognized a net loss for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for impact of this adoption on our operating results for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019.
Our product revenue reflected growth in Infrastructure Platforms, Applications and Security, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
The net loss and net loss per share in the prior year period were driven by the one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, foreign withholding taxes, and re-measurement of net deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $348 million, EMEA revenue increased by $161 million, and revenue in our APJC segment increased by $52 million.
The “BRICM” countries experienced product revenue growth of 5% in the aggregate, driven by increased product revenue in the emerging countries of Mexico, India, Brazil and Russia of 35%, 18%, 14% and 4%, respectively, partially offset by a product revenue decrease of 16% in China.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced product revenue growth in the public sector, enterprise and commercial markets, partially offset by a product revenue decline in the service provider market.


item3.txt
At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the pending United Kingdom “Brexit” withdrawal from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.
Impairment of that trust, or foreign regulatory actions taken in response to reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government, could affect the demand for our products from customers outside of the United States and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.
As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty.
Our revenue may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or decline as it did in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and in certain prior periods on a year-over-year basis.
In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs.


