fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial data as of January 27, 2018 and for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017 has been prepared by the Company, without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The July 29, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2017.
The Company consolidates its investments in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates (“SOFTBANK”) as this is a variable interest entity and the Company is the primary beneficiary.
SOFTBANK’s share of the earnings in the venture fund are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of January 27, 2018; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017; the statements of cash flows and equity for the six months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017, as applicable, have been made.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended January 27, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full fiscal year or any future periods.
Share-Based Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that impacts the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
This resulted in an overall decrease in the effective tax rate for the six months ended January 27, 2018 due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The underlying principle of the new standard is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
assessment of the financial statement impact of the new standard, as discussed below, and will continue to update that assessment as more information becomes available.
In addition to the above revenue recognition timing impacts, the new standard will require incremental contract acquisition costs (such as sales commissions) for customer contracts to be capitalized and amortized over the contract period.
Cisco will be required to record cumulative effect adjustments to retained earnings (net of tax) upon adopting the new standard at the beginning of fiscal 2019.


item2.txt
We experienced solid revenue growth in Security and Applications and modest growth in Infrastructure Platforms, and we continued to make progress in the transition of our business model to increased software and subscriptions.
Total gross margin increased by 0.3 percentage points, driven by productivity improvements and favorable product mix partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing.
We had a net loss of $8.8 billion and a net loss per share of $1.78, primarily due to the $11.1 billion provisional tax expense related to the Tax Act, comprised of $9.0 billion U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax, and $0.9 billion of net deferred tax assets re-measurement.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $344 million, driven in large part by product revenue growth in the United States.
The “BRICM” countries experienced product revenue growth of 2% in the aggregate, driven by increased product revenue in the emerging countries of China, Russia and Brazil of 8%, 17% and 11%, respectively, partially offset by product revenue declines in India and Mexico of 11% and 4%, respectively.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced product revenue growth in the public sector and commercial markets, partially offset by a product revenue decline in the service provider market.
From a product category perspective, product revenue increased 3% led by solid product revenue growth in Security and Applications, which each grew by 6%.
Total gross margin decreased by 1.2 percentage points due to unfavorable impacts from pricing and a $127 million legal and indemnification settlement charge, partially offset by productivity benefits and favorable product mix.


item3.txt
At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Brazil Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer.
Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties.
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities that remain are for calendar years 2003 through 2007, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007.
The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to $257 million for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, $1.6 billion for interest, and $1.2 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of January 27, 2018.
We have completed a thorough review of the matters and believe the asserted claims against our Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and we are defending the claims vigorously.
While we believe there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against our Brazilian subsidiary and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any.


