As permitted by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission applicable to Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, these notes are condensed and do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
As a result of the adoption of ASC 606 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," Cognex Corporation (the "Company") has provided new disclosures related to revenue recognition in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
The Company identifies contracts with customers as agreements that create enforceable rights and obligations, which typically take the form of customer contracts or purchase orders.
The Company identifies performance obligations as promises in contracts to transfer distinct goods or services.
Application-specific customer solutions that are comprised of a combination of products and services are accounted for as one performance obligation to deliver a total solution to the customer.
On-site support services that are provided to the customer after the solution is deployed are accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
These solutions are provided to customers in a variety of industries, including the consumer electronics, logistics, and automotive industries.
Shipping and handling activities for which the Company is responsible under the terms and conditions of the sale are not accounted for as performance obligations but as fulfillment costs.
The Company does not assess whether promised goods or services are performance obligations if they are immaterial in the context of the contract.
If revenue is recognized before immaterial promises have been completed, then the costs related to such immaterial promises are accrued at the time of sale.
The Company determines the transaction price as the amount of consideration it expects to receive in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to the customer.
The Company includes estimated variable consideration in the transaction price only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved.
The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation at contract inception based on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, or the price at which the Company would sell the good or service separately to similar customers in similar circumstances.Certain statements made in this report, as well as oral statements made by the Company from time to time, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Cognex Corporation is a leading worldwide provider of machine vision products that capture and analyze visual information in order to automate tasks, primarily in manufacturing processes, where vision is required.
In addition to product revenue derived from the sale of machine vision products, the Company also generates revenue by providing maintenance and support, consulting, and training services to its customers; however, service revenue accounted for less than 10% of total revenue for all periods presented.
Customers in the consumer electronics and automotive industries contribute the largest percentage to the Company's factory automation revenue.
Most manufacturers can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, this market also includes a broad base of customers across a variety of other industries, including consumer products, food and beverage, medical devices, and pharmaceuticals.