FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of, and subject to the protection of, the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “estimates,” “will,” “should,” “plans” or “anticipates” or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may involve significant risks and uncertainties, and that actual results may vary materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Among the factors that significantly impact our business and could impact our business in the future are:

These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. The Company does not undertake, and specifically disclaims any obligation, to update any of the “forward-looking statements” to reflect occurrences or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statements except as required by the federal securities laws. Investors should refer to the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”) for a discussion of factors that could cause events to differ from those suggested by the forward-looking statements, including factors set forth in the sections entitled “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”.

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) covers: (i) the results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 and (ii) the financial condition as of September 30, 2018. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements (the “Audited Consolidated Financial Statements”) and related notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, included in the Company’s Form 10-K and with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements (the “Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements”) and related notes appearing elsewhere herein. This MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions associated with these statements.

