fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.
If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors, and also maintains relationships with many original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1.
Net sales increased 8% for the 13-week period ended March 30, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 24% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 23% in the first quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the first quarter of 2019 increased to 3,182 when compared to total unit sales of 2,956 in the first quarter of 2018.
The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
Gross profit dollars in the first quarter of 2019 increased 6% primarily due to growth in net sales while gross margin decreased 100 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross margin increased in the auto segment and was relatively flat in the aviation and marine segments when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased media advertising in the outdoor segment and increased cooperative advertising in the fitness and marine segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $4 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $4 million less for the marine segment, and not significantly different for the outdoor, fitness, and auto segments.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and development expense increased 3% in absolute dollars and decreased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
Operating income increased 6% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
In the current quarter, the growth in operating income in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue and gross profit dollar growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $0.3 million currency gain recognized in the first quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against Taiwan Dollar and weakening against the British Pound Sterling, offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro, within the 13-weeks ended March 30, 2019.
The $0.8 million currency gain recognized in the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended March 31, 2018.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.
Item 1A.
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).


