fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors and some also maintain relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
Net sales increased 7% for the 13-week period ended June 29, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 12%, contributing 83% of total revenue.
Total unit sales in the second quarter of 2019 increased to 3,838 when compared to total unit sales of 3,783 in the second quarter of 2018.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 4%, 12%, 13%, and 20%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products.
Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was slightly lower when compared to the year-ago quarter and decreased 5% in absolute dollars.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 7% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to less amortization expense associated with intangible assets.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $5 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $4 million less for the marine segment, approximately $1 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars.
Operating income increased 18% in absolute dollars and increased 250 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The increase in operating income as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to improved gross margin and leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $3.4 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Euro and strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the British Pound Sterling, within the 13-weeks ended June 29, 2019.
The $2.6 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended June 30, 2018.
As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended June 29, 2019 was $223.7 million compared to $190.3 million for the 13-week period ended June 29, 2018, an increase of $33.4 million.
Net sales increased 7% for the 26-week period ended June 29, 2019 when compared to the year-ago period.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion.
As of June 29, 2019, the Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.
Item 2.


