The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018.The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
Outdoor was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 26% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to 25% in the third quarter of 2017.
Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2018 increased to 3,527 when compared to total unit sales of 3,492 in the third quarter of 2017.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 13%, 14%, 28%, and 17%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
Cost of goods sold increased 5% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter.
The outdoor segment decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to product mix.
The fitness segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by product mix.
The aviation segment decrease in cost of goods as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross profit dollars in the third quarter of 2018 increased 10% while gross margin increased 110 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Advertising expense decreased 4% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar decrease was driven primarily by decreased media advertising in the auto and fitness segments, partially offset by increased media advertising in the outdoor and marine segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 13% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The decrease in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue in the auto segment was primarily attributable to a current quarter reduction in legal related costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
Research and development expense increased $9.3 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.Item 4.Item 1.
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018.
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.