fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors and some also maintain relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 1.
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
Net sales increased 15% for the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 23%, 28%, 9%, and 28%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by adventure watches.
Gross profit dollars in the third quarter of 2019 increased 18%, primarily due to growth in net sales along with a gross margin increase of 140 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment gross margin increase of 490 basis points was primarily attributable to lower license expense.
Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars.
The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments, partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The fitness segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to greater leverage of operating costs.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue decreased 130 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 7% in absolute dollars.
Operating income increased 33% in absolute dollars and 380 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $16.3 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, within the 13-weeks ended September 28, 2019.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $29.9 million in the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $17.1 million in the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018.
Net sales increased 10% for the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago period.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 12%, 16%, 13%, and 22%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago period.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.


