fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.


item1.txt
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.


item2.txt
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
Net sales increased 8% for the 13-week period ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 17%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 4%, 24%, 24%, and 23%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from increased promotional activity during the second quarter of 2018.
Gross profit dollars in the second quarter of 2018 increased 8% while gross margin increased 30 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross margin in the marine segment increased compared to the year-ago quarter, as discussed above.
Gross margin remained relatively flat across the aviation and fitness segments.
Advertising expense increased 4% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar increase was driven primarily by increased cooperative advertising associated with higher sales.
Auto advertising expense, in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue, increased compared to the year-ago quarter primarily due to a refresh of point-of-sale displays.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment increase as a percent of revenues in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to accelerated amortization of an intangible asset related to a previous acquisition.
The increase in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenues in the marine segment was primarily attributable to expenses associated with recent acquisitions.
Research and development expense increased $14.5 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
Operating income increased 4% in absolute dollars and decreased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The growth in operating income in absolute dollars is primarily attributable to revenue growth while the slight decrease in operating income as a percent of revenues is primarily attributable to the increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $2.6 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended June 30, 2018.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.
The hearing before the Court of Appeal is scheduled to take place on January 30, 2019.


