fls.txt
For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
We adopted ASU 2016-02 as of January 1, 2019.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of right-of-use assets and lease payment obligations for our real estate office leases of $387.6 million and $417.8 million, respectively, as of January 1, 2019.
As of June 30, 2019, $56.2 million of the lease liability was included in other accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
We determine if our contractual agreements contain a lease at inception.
Our lease agreements consist primarily of operating leases for office space.
Our operating leases are included on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities.
Operating lease assets are also recognized at the commencement date as the total operating lease liability adjusted for prepaid rents, deferred rent liabilities and lease fair value adjustments that existed under ASC 840.


item2.txt
Software-enabled services revenues increased $221.1 million, or 29.8%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $236.2 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $7.3 million.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.8 million.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in software-enabled services revenues within the DST business.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $8.6 million.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $3.3 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $6.4 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $5.5 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $0.9 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $9.9 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $8.3 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $1.6 million.
The impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $2.8 million.


item3.txt
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
When necessary, we have borrowed to fund acquisitions.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2019.


part2.txt
In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Item 1A.


