fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-15 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-15 as of January 1, 2018, which resulted in the Company presenting fees paid for debt extinguishment as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods shown.
ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments, except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, that have readily determinable fair values to be measured at fair value with any changes in fair value recognized in net income.
Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values may be measured at estimated fair value or cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes, with changes in the carrying value recognized in net income.
A qualitative assessment for impairment is required for equity investments without readily determinable fair values.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 as of January 1, 2018, which did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606).
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
Application of the ASU is through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Under the equity method, we recognize income or losses from our pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates’ net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate.
We measure equity investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee, at fair value, with changes in the fair value recognized in earnings.
We use net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
These investments are recorded at cost, less impairment, adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer.
At each reporting period, we assess if these investments continue to qualify for this measurement alternative.
Impairment is recorded when there is evidence that the expected fair value of the investment has declined to below the recorded cost.
We have certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity method of accounting in which our carrying value exceeds the proportionate share of net assets of the unconsolidated affiliate.
The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.
The relevant business combination disclosures have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


item3.txt
When necessary, we have borrowed to fund acquisitions.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition, we are involved in various other legal proceedings arising in the normal course of our businesses.


