fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
These accounting principles were applied on a basis consistent with those of the audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on February 28, 2018 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Such reclassifications did not affect total revenues, operating income or net income.
The December 31, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet data were derived from audited financial statements but do not include all disclosures required by GAAP for annual financial statements.
The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the expected results for any subsequent quarters or the full year.
The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-15 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements was to reflect the presentation of debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs as cash outflows from financing activities within the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-15, which did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Lessor accounting is largely unchanged under the amendments of this ASU.
The impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-02 to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements will be to recognize the majority of the Company’s operating lease commitments as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will result in a material increase in the assets and liabilities recorded on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.


item2.txt
Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc. On April 16, 2018, the Company purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) for approximately $5.0 billion in cash, plus the costs, fees, expenses and debt assumed in connection with the transaction.
In addition, the amended and restated senior secured credit facility includes an undrawn revolving credit facility of $250.0 million.
The relevant business combination disclosures will be included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements once preliminary accounting has been completed.
Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Our revenues increased $14.2 million or 3.5%.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We derive our revenues from the delivery of products and services to clients primarily in the financial services and healthcare industries.
Fluctuations in the value of assets under our clients’ management could also adversely affect our revenues because pricing in many of our agreements is adjusted based on assets under management.
In addition, any other events that adversely affect our clients’ businesses, rates of growth or numbers of clients they serve could decrease demand for our products and services and the number of transactions we process.
We may be unsuccessful in predicting the needs of changing industries and whether potential clients will accept our products or services.
If trends or events do not occur as we expect, our business could be negatively impacted.
We derive significant revenues from asset management, administration and distribution contracts with such clients.
Under these contracts, the fees paid to us are based on a variety of factors, including the market value of assets under management, assets under administration and number of transactions processed.
Assets under management, assets under administration or the number of transactions processed may decline for various reasons, causing results to vary.
Factors that could decrease assets under management and assets under administration (and therefore revenues) include declines in the market value of the assets in the funds (and accounts as applicable) managed, administered and distributed, redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifts among, the funds (and accounts as applicable) managed, administered and distributed, as well as market conditions generally.
These clients and our business relating to them are affected by trends, developments and risks associated with the global hedge fund industry.


