fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under ASC Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values may be measured at estimated fair value or cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes, with changes in the carrying value recognized in net income.
A qualitative assessment for impairment is required for equity investments without readily determinable fair values.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606).
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
Earnings and losses from such investments are recorded on a pre-tax basis, if any.
Funds held on behalf of clients in the form of cash, cash equivalents and certificates of deposit with a maturity of less than twelve months are included in Funds receivable and funds held on behalf of clients in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Funds held on behalf of clients in the form of certificates of deposit with a maturity of greater than twelve months are classified as Investments in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In addition, client funds obligations include transfer agency client balances invested overnight.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Under the equity method, we recognize income or losses from our pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates’ net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate.
We measure equity investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee, at fair value, with changes in the fair value recognized in earnings.
We use net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
These investments are recorded at cost, less impairment, adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer.
We have certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity method of accounting in which our carrying value exceeds the proportionate share of net assets of the unconsolidated affiliate.
The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc. On April 16, 2018, we purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) for approximately $5.1 billion in cash, plus the costs of effecting the transaction.
In addition, the Credit Agreement includes a revolving credit facility of $250.0 million, of which $241.2 million was available as of June 30, 2018.
The relevant business combination disclosures have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Under the terms of the agreement, we will purchase Eze in an all-cash transaction of $1.45 billion.


item3.txt
When necessary, we have borrowed to fund acquisitions.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


