 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including the documents incorporated herein by reference, contains forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty.
These "forward-looking statements" are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Forward-looking statements consist of, among other things, trend analyses, statements regarding future events, future financial performance, our anticipated growth, the effect of general economic and market conditions, our business strategy and our plan to build and grow our business, our operating results, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on our financial results, the impact of expensing stock-based compensation, the sufficiency of our capital resources, our ability to meet our ongoing debt and obligations as they become due, and potential litigation involving us, all of which are based on current expectations, estimates, and forecasts, and the beliefs and assumptions of our management.
Words such as “believes,” “seeks,” “expects,” “may,” “might,” “should,” “intends,” “could,” “would,” “likely,” “will,” “targets,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “aims,” “projects,” “estimates” or any variations of such words and similar expressions are also intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
Accordingly, they should not be viewed as assurances of future performance, and actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.
Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations expressed in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those summarized under “Item 1A.
Risk factors” and elsewhere in this report, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and in our other SEC filings.
Forward-looking statements represent our management's beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
