ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
The following discussion and analysis presents financial information denominated in millions of dollars which can lead to differences from rounding when compared to similar information contained in the consolidated financial statements and related notes which are primarily denominated in thousands of dollars.
Executive Summary
We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good.
Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, companies, education institutions, healthcare organizations and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise and data intelligence.
Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics.
Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
Four-Point Growth Strategy
1.Delight Customers with Innovative Cloud Solutions
This strategy reflects our relentless focus on driving value and outcomes for our customers through our solutions.
Our Blackbaud SKY™ platform is a core tenant of this strategy and continues to power an elevated level of innovation by our engineers.
It is also enabling our growing ecosystem of partners who are also passionate about social good, to create new capabilities that often look and feel like Blackbaud-built capabilities.
For the first time in the history of the Company, there are now significantly more outside developers developing on our platform than Blackbaud engineers.
The customers we serve require vertical specific business solutions to automate their operations.
Among the many product and innovation updates across all of our vertical markets, we recently announced the general availability of Blackbaud Church Management™, which is already transforming the church technology landscape.
Within just one year of announcing plans for Blackbaud Church Management, we now serve churches in more than half of the 50 U.S. states, representing congregations of all different sizes and spanning more than 10 denominations.
Bringing this solution to market is a significant step toward addressing several challenges in the church market and a substantial opportunity for Blackbaud.
We have built an environment of rapid innovation through a combination of our modern cloud architecture and industry standard methodologies.
Our early adopter customers have a significant role in shaping our new solutions and our SKY platform enables us to rapidly iterate based on their feedback before releasing the solutions to the market.
This culture of innovation led to the general availability of Blackbaud Church Management and the process is highly repeatable.
For example, we are also well underway with early adopters in our Higher Education vertical as we extend our proven Education Management portfolio up market.
24Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.
We have spent the last several years organizing for scale and laying the foundation for our salespeople to be more successful.
This year marks an important milestone in that process as the structural transformation in sales is now largely complete, enabling our account executives to focus on leading with total solution selling by vertical, driving more products per customer, higher ASPs and overall increased customer lifetime value.
With the structural changes behind us, our focus is on adding sales headcount and improving overall sales productivity.
This effort extends beyond our sales organization into areas like marketing, where we are investing in the necessary technology and resources to efficiently drive an increased number of quality leads and better cover our large addressable market.
Over the last three years, we've tripled the number of account executives dedicated to prospect accounts, and these investments are just one way we're equipping our growing salesforce to be more effective.
In January 2019, we acquired YourCause, a market leader in corporate social responsibility software, and our ability to move fast on back-office integration is enabling us to further differentiate our solutions from the competition.
As corporate social responsibility programs are implemented around the world, it is becoming increasingly important for companies to have acute local knowledge in the countries where employees are accessing their programs and to remove any functionality barriers.
We recently announced expansion in YourCause's global footprint by developing in-market partnerships to advance employee giving and nonprofit support globally, while also implementing key product features for universal functionality.
Our TAM now stands at over $10 billion, and we remain active in the evaluation of opportunities to further expand our addressable market through acquisitions and internal product development.
We are also focused on operational efficiency to strengthen the business and position us for long-term success.
This continuous effort spans the entire organization as we drive towards a more scalable operating model that creates efficiency and consistency in how we execute through infrastructure investments, productivity initiatives, and organizational re-alignments.
For example, we are now selling a portfolio of modern cloud solutions, which is driving a shift away from one-time services as we reduce the hours needed for implementation and integration of our solutions.
In order to efficiently scale as the Company continues to grow, we are continuing to build out our partner ecosystem, which includes partnerships to implement our cloud solutions.
We have made significant progress building out this program in 2019 and expect to continue the effort in 2020.
The increases in total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily driven by growth in recurring revenue as we continue to see positive demand from customers across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions.
Our acquisition of YourCause, which occurred on January 2, 2019, also contributed to the increases in recurring and total revenue.
As expected, one-time services and other revenue declined $5.0 million and $14.3 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 due to our continued shift in focus towards selling cloud-based subscription solutions.
In general, our cloud-based solutions include integrated analytics, training and payments services, and require less implementation services and little to no customization services.
We are also selling more subscription-based contracts for retained services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts.
As a result, we continue to expect one-time services and other revenue to decline.
Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q25
Blackbaud, Inc.
Income from operations decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018.
The positive impact of growth in total revenue driven by recurring subscriptions was offset primarily by investments we are making in our sales organization and innovation, which we expect to continue for the remainder of 2019.
Contributing to the decreases in income from operations were increases in stock-based compensation of $4.1 million and $7.9 million, respectively, and hosting and data center costs of $1.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively.
Increases in employee severance of $1.9 million, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations of $1.8 million and rent expense of $1.7 million, also negatively impacted income from operations during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The increases in stock-based compensation expense were primarily driven by an increase in the grant date fair value of our annual equity awards granted to employees during the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the grant date fair value of the awards granted during the same period in 2018.
The increase in rent expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily associated with the lease for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
The increase in employee severance was related to the elimination of certain roles within the company, most of which occurred during the first quarter of 2019.
Customer retention
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
We anticipate a continued decrease in maintenance contract renewals as we transition our solution portfolio and maintenance customers from a perpetual license-based model to a cloud-based subscription delivery model.
In the long term, we also anticipate an increase in recurring subscription contract renewals as we continue focusing on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will provide value-adding capabilities to better address our customers' needs.
Due primarily to these factors, we believe a recurring revenue customer retention measure that combines recurring subscription, maintenance and service customer contracts provides a better representation of our customers' overall behavior.
For the twelve months ended September 30, 2019, approximately 92% of our customers with recurring revenue contracts were retained.
This customer retention rate is unchanged from our rate for the full year ended December 31, 2018.
Balance sheet and cash flow
At September 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were $29.1 million and the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $503.1 million.
Our net leverage ratio was 2.47 to 1.00.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we generated $122.1 million in cash from operations, had a net increase in our borrowings of $115.6 million, which was primarily used to finance the acquisition of YourCause, returned $17.7 million to stockholders by way of dividends and had aggregate cash outlays of $44.1 million for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs.
Adoption of new lease accounting standard
On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, using the transition method that allowed us to initially apply the guidance at the adoption date of January 1, 2019 without adjusting comparative periods presented.
Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as we recognized lease liabilities and ROU assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
The impacts of adoption are reflected in the financial information herein.
For additional information regarding the impact of our adoption of ASU 2016-02, see Notes 2 and 10 of our consolidated financial statements in this report.
26Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.
Results of Operations
Comparison of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018
We have included the results of operations of YourCause in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition.
We determined that the YourCause acquisition was not a material business combination; therefore, separate presentation of revenue and earnings since the acquisition date are not required nor included herein.
Operating results
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services.
Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for retained services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
Cost of recurring revenue is primarily comprised of compensation costs for customer support and production IT personnel, third-party contractor expenses, third-party royalty and data expenses, hosting expenses, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, amortization of intangible assets from business combinations, amortization of software development costs, transaction-based costs related to payments services including remittances of amounts due to third-parties and other costs incurred in providing support and recurring services to our customers.
We continue to experience growth in sales of our cloud-based solutions as we meet the demand of our customers that increasingly prefer cloud-based subscription offerings with integrated analytics, training and payment services.
Recurring subscription contracts are typically for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter.
We intend to continue focusing on innovation, quality and integration of our cloud-based solutions, which we believe will drive future revenue growth.
The increases in recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to positive demand across our portfolio of cloud-based solutions as revenue from subscriptions increased $21.2 million and $63.3 million, respectively.
The inclusion of YourCause contributed to the increases in recurring revenue as the acquisition was completed on January 2, 2019.
We also saw increases in revenue from subscription-based retained services as well as services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts.
These favorable impacts from subscriptions were partially offset by decreases in maintenance revenue of $4.6 million and $13.8 million, respectively during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018.
These continued decreases in maintenance revenue were primarily related to our ongoing efforts to migrate customers from legacy on-premises solutions onto our solutions powered by Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
The increases in cost of recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in transaction-based costs of $2.9 million and $9.4 million, respectively, related to payment services integrated in our cloud-based solutions, compensation costs of $2.2 million and $6.7 million, respectively, third-party data and tool costs of $1.5 million and $3.8 million, respectively, amortization of software development costs of $1.1 million and $3.1 million, respectively, and hosting costs and data center costs of $1.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively.
Also contributing to the increase in cost of recurring revenue for the nine months
Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q27
Blackbaud, Inc.
ended September 30, 2019 was allocations of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $3.8 million.
The growth in compensation costs was primarily attributable to an increasing portion of our resources now providing subscription-based retained services as opposed to one-time.
The inclusion of YourCause also contributed to the increases in cost of recurring revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 when compared to the same periods in 2018.
The increase in amortization of software development costs was primarily due to investments made on innovation, quality and the integration of our cloud-based solutions.
The increase in allocated corporate costs was primarily driven by investments made in corporate IT, including cyber security and increases in headcount.
The decreases in recurring gross margin for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily the result of incremental costs associated with our continued shift toward selling cloud-based solutions and retained services, including hosting and data center costs, compensation costs and amortization of software development costs.
One-time services and other revenue is comprised of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services, as well as revenue from the sale of our software sold under perpetual license arrangements, fees from user conferences and third-party software referral fees.
Cost of one-time services and other is primarily comprised of compensation costs for professional services and onsite training personnel, other costs incurred in providing onsite customer training, third-party contractor expenses, data expense incurred to perform one-time analytic services, third-party software royalties, costs of user conferences, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs and amortization of intangible assets from business combinations.
One-time services and other revenue decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, primarily due to decreases in one-time consulting revenue of $3.9 million and $10.1 million, respectively and analytics revenue of $0.9 million and $2.8 million, respectively.
We expect that the shift in our go-to-market strategy towards cloud-based subscription offerings, which generally include integrated analytics and require less implementation and customization services, will continue to negatively impact one-time services and other revenue.
We also continue to sell more subscription-based contracts for retained services and services embedded in our renewable cloud-based solution contracts, both of which are recorded as recurring revenue.
Cost of one-time services and other decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs of $3.8 million and $10.2 million, respectively, which is in line with the ongoing shift in our go-to-market strategy as discussed above as an increasing portion of our resources are now providing subscription-based retained services as opposed to one-time.
One-time services and other gross margin increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, as the reductions in costs of one-time services and other discussed above outpaced the declines in one-time consulting revenue and higher margin analytics revenue associated with the shift in our go-to-market strategy.
28Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.
Operating expenses
Sales, marketing, and customer success expense includes compensation costs, variable-sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, public relations costs, variable reseller commissions and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs.
We continue to make investments to improve market coverage and drive sales effectiveness, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy.
The increases in sales, marketing and customer success expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $4.4 million and $15.7 million, respectively and increases in allocations of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs of $1.3 million and $5.0 million, respectively.
Also contributing to the increase in sales, marketing and customer success expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, was an increase in commissions expense of $2.2 million.
The increases in compensation costs were primarily associated with our efforts during the second half of 2018 to increase our direct sales force and we expect to continue making investments during the remainder of 2019.
These incremental investments are intended to address the large market opportunity that we see for ourselves and fuel future revenue growth.
In addition, compensation costs increased due to incremental headcount associated with the inclusion of YourCause.
The increase in commission expense was primarily driven by an increase in commissionable sales.
The increases in allocated corporate costs were primarily driven by investments made in corporate IT, including cyber security and increases in headcount.
Research and development expense includes compensation costs for engineering and product management personnel, third-party contractor expenses, software development tools and other expenses related to developing new solutions, upgrading and enhancing existing solutions, and allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs.
We continue to make investments to delight our customers with innovative cloud solutions, which is a component of our four-point growth strategy.
The increases in research and development expense during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $2.4 million and $8.3 million, respectively.
The increases in compensation costs were primarily associated with the inclusion of YourCause's engineering resources.
The increase in research and development expense was partially offset by an increase in the amount of software development costs that were required to be capitalized under the internal-use software guidance.
We expect that the amount of software development costs capitalized will continue to increase modestly
Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q29
Blackbaud, Inc.
in the near-term as we make investments in innovation, quality and the integration of our solutions, which we believe will drive long-term revenue growth.
General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation costs for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, third-party professional fees, insurance, cybersecurity, allocated depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses.
The increases in general and administrative expense during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in compensation costs of $5.4 million and $8.9 million, respectively.
Also contributing to the increase in general and administrative expense during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was rent expense of $1.6 million.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in acquisition-related expenses and integration costs of $2.0 million.
The increase in compensation costs was primarily related to stock-based compensation and our acquisition of YourCause.
The increase in rent expense was related to the lease of our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina, which commenced in April 2018.
Restructuring
During 2017, in an effort to further our organizational objectives including, improved operating efficiency, customer outcomes and employee satisfaction, we initiated a multi-year plan to consolidate and relocate some of our existing offices to highly modern and more collaborative workspaces with short-term financial commitments.
These workspaces are also more centrally located for our employees and closer to our customers and prospects.
Restructuring costs incurred prior to our adoption of ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019 consisted primarily of costs to terminate lease agreements, contractual lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, upon vacating space as part of the plan, as well as insignificant costs to relocate affected employees and write-off facilities-related fixed assets that we would no longer use.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 at January 1, 2019, we reduced our operating lease ROU assets recognized at transition by the carrying amounts of the restructuring liabilities for certain leased office spaces that we ceased using prior to December 31, 2018.
See additional details below.
Restructuring costs incurred during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 consisted primarily of operating lease ROU asset impairment costs and, to a lesser extent, lease payments for offices we have ceased using and write-offs of facilities-related fixed assets that we will no longer use.
We currently expect to incur before-tax restructuring costs associated with these activities of between $8.5 million and $9.5 million, with substantially all of the remaining costs expected to be incurred by the end of 2019.
These restructuring activities are currently expected to result in improved operating efficiencies and future annual before-tax savings of between $5.0 million and $6.0 million beginning in 2020.
30Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.
The increases in interest expense in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to increases in our average daily borrowings related to our acquisition of YourCause in January 2019.
Deferred revenue
To the extent that our customers are billed for our solutions and services in advance of delivery, we record such amounts in deferred revenue.
Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.
We generally invoice our customers with recurring revenue contracts in annual cycles 30 days prior to the end of the contract term.
Deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals.
Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals at or near the beginning of our third quarter.
Our acquisition of YourCause on January 2, 2019 also modestly contributed to the increase in deferred revenue from recurring revenue contracts since December 31, 2018.
Deferred revenue from one-time services and other increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to a seasonal increase in advance registration billings associated with our bbcon user conference, which occurs each year in October.
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue.
In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue from customer arrangements predating the acquisition to
Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q31
Blackbaud, Inc.
fair value, which resulted in lower recorded deferred revenue as of the acquisition date than the actual amounts paid in advance for solutions and services under those customer arrangements.
Therefore, our deferred revenue after an acquisition will not reflect the full amount of deferred revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value.
Further explanation of this impact is included below under the caption "Non-GAAP financial measures".
The increases in our effective income tax rate during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same periods in 2018, were primarily due to a decrease in the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation.
The impact was attributable to a decrease in the market price for shares of our common stock, when compared to the same periods in 2018, as reported by Nasdaq.
Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter.
32Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.
Non-GAAP financial measures
The operating results analyzed below are presented on a non-GAAP basis.
We use non-GAAP revenue, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share internally in analyzing our operational performance.
Accordingly, we believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance.
While we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information, non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation between companies.
We have acquired businesses whose net tangible assets include deferred revenue.
In accordance with GAAP reporting requirements, we recorded write-downs of deferred revenue under arrangements predating the acquisition to fair value, which resulted in lower recognized revenue than the contributed purchase price until the related obligations to provide services under such arrangements are fulfilled.
Therefore, our GAAP revenues after the acquisitions will not reflect the full amount of revenue that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value.
The non-GAAP measures described below reverse the acquisition-related deferred revenue write-downs so that the full amount of revenue booked by the acquired companies is included, which we believe provides a more accurate representation of a revenue run-rate in a given period and, therefore, will provide more meaningful comparative results in future periods.
The non-GAAP financial measures discussed below exclude the impact of certain transactions because we believe they are not directly related to our operating performance in any particular period, but are for our long-term benefit over multiple periods.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful period-to-period comparisons and analysis of trends in our business.
Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q33
Blackbaud, Inc.
Non-GAAP free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures, including costs required to be capitalized for software development, and capital expenditures for property and equipment.
34Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.
Non-GAAP organic revenue growth
In addition, we discuss non-GAAP organic revenue growth, non-GAAP organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis and non-GAAP organic recurring revenue growth, in analyzing our performance.
We believe that these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors, as a supplement to GAAP measures, for evaluating the periodic growth of our business on a consistent basis.
Each of these measures of non-GAAP organic revenue growth excludes incremental acquisition-related revenue attributable to companies acquired in the current fiscal year.
For companies, if any, acquired in the immediately preceding fiscal year, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures reflects presentation of full year incremental non-GAAP revenue derived from such companies as if they were combined throughout the prior period, and they include the non-GAAP revenue attributable to those companies, as if there were no acquisition-related write-downs of acquired deferred revenue to fair value as required by GAAP.
In addition, each of these non-GAAP organic revenue growth measures excludes prior period revenue associated with divested businesses.
The exclusion of the prior period revenue is to present the results of the divested businesses within the results of the combined company for the same period of time in both the prior and current periods.
We believe this presentation provides a more comparable representation of our current business’ organic revenue growth and revenue run-rate.
Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q35
Blackbaud, Inc.
Seasonality
Our revenues normally fluctuate as a result of certain seasonal variations in our business.
Our transaction revenue has historically been at its lowest in the first quarter due to the timing of customer fundraising initiatives and events.
Our revenue from payment services has historically increased during the fourth quarter due to year-end giving.
Our revenue from professional services has historically been lower in the first quarter when many of those services commence and in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season.
As a result of these and other factors, our total revenue has historically been lower in the first quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year, with the fourth quarter historically achieving the highest total revenue.
Our expenses, however, do not vary significantly as a result of these factors, but do fluctuate on a quarterly basis due to varying timing of expenditures.
Our cash flow from operations normally fluctuates quarterly due to the combination of the timing of customer contract renewals including renewals associated with customers of acquired companies, delivery of professional services and occurrence of customer events, the payment of bonuses, as well as merit-based salary increases, among other factors.
Historically, due to lower revenues in our first quarter, combined with the payment of bonuses from the prior year in our first quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lowest in our first quarter, and due to the timing of customer contract renewals, many of which take place at or near the beginning of our third quarter, our cash flow from operations has been lower in our second quarter as compared to our third and fourth quarters.
Partially offsetting these favorable drivers of cash flow from operations in our third and fourth quarters are merit-based salary increases, which are generally effective in April each year.
In addition, deferred revenues can vary on a seasonal basis for the same reasons.
These patterns may change as a result of the continued shift to online giving, growth in volume of transactions for which we process payments, or as a result of acquisitions, new market opportunities, new solution introductions or other factors.
Our cash flow from financing is negatively impacted in our first quarter when most of our equity awards vest, as we pay taxes on behalf of our employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
36Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.
At September 30, 2019, our total cash and cash equivalents balance included approximately $17.8 million of cash that was held by operations outside the U.S.
While these funds may not be needed to fund our U.S. operations for at least the next twelve months, if we need these funds, we may be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate the funds.
We currently do not intend nor anticipate a need to repatriate our cash held outside the U.S.
Operating cash flow
Working capital changes are composed of changes in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and deferred revenue.
Cash flow from operations associated with working capital decreased $6.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in the amount of deferred revenue recognized slightly outpacing customer billings and an increase in the collection of customer account balances in 2018 from an aging improvement initiative.
Fluctuations in the timing of vendor payments also contributed to the decrease in cash flow from operation associated with working capital.
Investing cash flow
Net cash used in investing activities of $153.0 million increased by $68.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we used net cash of $109.4 million, for our acquisition of YourCause, compared to $45.3 million spent on similar investments during the same period in 2018.
We used $34.5 million for software development costs, which was up $7.9 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018.
The increase in cash outlays for software development costs was primarily related to our innovative cloud-based solutions, as well as development activities for Blackbaud SKY, our modern cloud platform.
We also spent $9.6 million of cash for purchases of property and equipment during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, which was down $3.3 million from cash spent during the same period in 2018.
The higher cash outlays for property and equipment during the same period in 2018 was primarily driven by leasehold improvements for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina.
Financing cash flow
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we had a net increase in borrowings of $115.6 million, which was primarily used to finance our acquisition of YourCause.
We paid $20.3 million to satisfy tax obligations of employees upon settlement or exercise of equity awards during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $27.4 million during the same period in 2018.
The amount of taxes paid by us on the behalf of employees related to the settlement or exercise of equity awards varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting, employee exercise decisions, as well as the market price for shares of our common stock at the time of settlement.
Most of our equity awards currently vest in our first quarter.
In addition, during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we paid dividends of $17.7 million, which was relatively consistent with the comparable period of 2018.
Cash used in financing activities associated with changes in restricted cash due to customers increased $209.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, as the amount of restricted cash held and payable by us to customers as of December 31, 2017 was significantly larger than at the same date in 2018.
Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q37
Blackbaud, Inc.
We have drawn on our credit facility from time to time to help us meet financial needs, such as financing for business acquisitions.
At September 30, 2019, our available borrowing capacity under the 2017 Credit Facility was $175.6 million.
The 2017 Credit Facility matures in June 2022.
At September 30, 2019, the carrying amount of our debt under the 2017 Credit Facility was $503.1 million.
Our average daily borrowings during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $517.8 million and $553.3 million, respectively.
Commitments and contingencies
The term loan under the 2017 Credit Facility requires periodic principal payments.
The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.
The total liability for uncertain tax positions as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, was $4.2 million and $3.7 million, respectively.
Our accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was $0.9 million and $0.7 million as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
38Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.
In February 2019, our Board of Directors approved our annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share to be made in quarterly payments.
Dividends at this annual rate would aggregate to $23.5 million assuming 49.0 million shares of common stock are outstanding, although dividends are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, to change or suspend dividend payments at any time for any reason.
Our ability to continue to declare and pay dividends quarterly this year and beyond might be restricted by, among other things, the terms of the 2017 Credit Facility, general economic conditions and our ability to generate adequate operating cash flow.
On October 28, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a fourth quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on December 13, 2019 to stockholders of record on November 27, 2019.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of September 30, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors.
Foreign Currency Exchange Rates
Approximately 14% of our total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was generated from operations outside the U.S. We do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary.
Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, changes in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of our subsidiaries’ financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results.
The accumulated currency translation adjustment, recorded within accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders’ equity, was a loss of $11.9 million as of September 30, 2019 and a loss of $6.6 million as of December 31, 2018.
The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our U.S. or U.K. entities.
The contracts entered into by the U.S. entity are almost always denominated in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, and contracts entered into by our U.K., Australian and Irish subsidiaries are generally denominated in British Pounds, Australian dollars and Euros, respectively.
Historically, as the U.S. dollar weakened, foreign currency translation resulted in an increase in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
Conversely, as the U.S. dollar strengthened, foreign currency translation resulted in a decrease in our revenue and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, foreign translation resulted in a decrease in our revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies.
Though we have exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily those between the U.S. dollar and both the British Pound and Canadian dollar, the impact has generally not been material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates reduced our total revenue by $5.2 million and our income from operations by $1.1 million.
We will continue monitoring such exposure and take action as appropriate.
To determine the impacts on revenue (or income from operations) from fluctuations in currency exchange rates, current period revenues (or income from operations) from entities reporting in foreign currencies were translated into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period's weighted average foreign currency exchange rates.
These impacts are non-GAAP financial information and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to those disclosed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q39
Blackbaud, Inc.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
For a discussion of the impact that recently issued accounting pronouncements are expected to have on our financial position and results of operations when adopted in the future, see Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements in this report.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table provides information about shares of common stock acquired or repurchased during the three months ended September 30, 2019.
All of these acquisitions were of common stock withheld by us to satisfy tax obligations of employees due upon exercise of stock appreciation rights and vesting of restricted stock awards and units.
The level of acquisition activity varies from period to period based upon the timing of grants and vesting as well as employee exercise decisions.
Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q41
Blackbaud, Inc.
ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS
42Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q
Blackbaud, Inc.
 SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Third Quarter 2019 Form 10-Q43
