 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition
Identifying the Contract with the Customer
The Company identifies contracts with customers as agreements that create enforceable rights and obligations, which typically take the form of customer contracts or purchase orders. 
The Company identifies performance obligations as promises in contracts to transfer distinct goods or services. Standard products and services that the Company regularly sells separately are accounted for as distinct performance obligations. Application-specific customer solutions that are comprised of a combination of products and services are accounted for as one performance obligation to deliver a total solution to the customer. On-site support services that are provided to the customer after the solution is deployed are accounted for as a separate performance obligation. These solutions are provided to customers in a variety of industries, including the consumer electronics, logistics, and automotive industries. 
Shipping and handling activities for which the Company is responsible under the terms and conditions of the sale are not accounted for as performance obligations but as fulfillment costs. These activities are required to fulfill the Company’s promise to transfer the goods and are expensed when revenue is recognized.
The Company determines the transaction price as the amount of consideration it expects to receive in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to the customer. Amounts collected from customers for sales taxes are excluded from the transaction price. 
Allocating the Transaction Price to the Performance Obligations
The Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation at contract inception based on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, or the price at which the Company would sell the good or service separately to similar customers in similar circumstances.
Recognizing Revenue When (or As) the Performance Obligations are Satisfied
The Company recognizes revenue when it transfers the promised goods or services to the customer. Revenue for standard products is recognized at the point in time when the customer obtains control of the goods, which is typically upon delivery when the customer has legal title, physical possession, the risks and rewards of ownership, and an enforceable obligation to pay for the products. Revenue for services, which are not material, is typically recognized over the time the service is provided. 
Revenue for application-specific customer solutions is recognized at the point in time when the solution is validated, which is the point in time when the Company can objectively determine that the agreed-upon specifications in the contract have been met and the customer will accept the performance obligations in the arrangement. Although the customer may have taken legal title and physical possession of the goods when they arrived at the customer’s designated site, the significant risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the customer only upon validation. Revenue for on-site support services related to these solutions is recognized over the time the service is provided. 
In certain instances, an arrangement may include customer-specified acceptance provisions or performance guarantees that allow the customer to accept or reject delivered products that do not meet the customer’s specifications. If the Company can objectively determine that control of a good or service has been transferred to the customer in accordance with the agreed-upon specifications in the contract, then customer acceptance is a formality. If acceptance provisions are presumed to be substantive, then revenue is deferred until customer acceptance. 
Management exercises judgment when determining the amount of revenue to be recognized each period. Such judgments include, but are not limited to, assessing the customer’s ability and intention to pay substantially all of the contract consideration when due, determining when two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as a single contract, determining whether a contract modification has occurred, assessing whether promises are immaterial in the context of the contract, determining whether material promises in a contract represent distinct performance obligations, estimating the transaction price for a contract that contains variable consideration, determining the stand-alone selling price of each performance obligation, determining whether control is transferred over time or at a point in time for performance obligations, and assessing whether formal customer acceptance provisions are substantive. 
ASU 2016-02 creates Topic 842, Leases. The objective of this ASU is to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet, and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. This ASU applies to any entity that enters into a lease, although lessees will see the most significant changes. The main difference between current GAAP and Topic 842 is the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for those leases classified as operating leases under current GAAP. Topic 842 distinguishes between finance leases and operating leases, which are substantially similar to the classification criteria for distinguishing between capital leases and operating leases under current GAAP. For public companies, the guidance in ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. In July 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2018-11 to amend ASU 2016-02 and provided an additional (and optional) transition method to adopt the new lease standard. This transition method allows entities to apply the new lease standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption instead of using the original modified retrospective transition method of adoption which required the restatement of all prior period financial statements. Under this new transition method, the comparative periods presented in the financial statements will 
continue to be in accordance with current GAAP (Topic 840, Leases). Management will adopt the new lease standard using this new transition method under ASU 2018-11. As of the date of this report, management has determined the scope of leases subject to the new accounting requirements, has selected a software package to assist with compliance, and has reviewed all leases in scope. Management is in the process of completing the implementation of the lease accounting software, training relevant employees, and finalizing the internal lease accounting policy and the related processes, internal controls, and disclosures. 
ASU 2016-13 applies to all reporting entities holding financial assets that are not accounted for at fair value through net income (debt securities). The amendments in this ASU eliminate the probable initial recognition threshold to recognize a credit loss under current GAAP and, instead, reflect an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses. In addition, this ASU broadens the information an entity must consider in developing the credit loss estimate, including the use of reasonable and supportable forecasted information. The amendments in this ASU require that credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities be presented as an allowance rather than as a write-down and an entity will be able to record reversals of credit losses in current period net income. For public companies, the guidance in ASU 2016-13 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years. This ASU should be applied through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective. Management does not expect ASU 2016-13 to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements and disclosures.
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2017-08, "Receivables - Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs - Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities"
ASU 2017-08 applies to all reporting entities that hold investments in callable debt securities that have an amortized cost basis in excess of the amount that is repayable by the issuer at the earliest call date (that is, at a premium). The amendments in this ASU shorten the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium. Specifically, the amendments require the premium to be amortized to the earliest call date. The amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount; the discount continues to be amortized to maturity. Under current GAAP, premiums and discounts on callable debt securities generally are amortized to the maturity date. If that callable debt security is subsequently called, the entity records a loss equal to the unamortized premium. The amendments in this ASU more closely align the amortization period of premiums and discounts to expectations incorporated in market pricing on the underlying securities. For public companies, the amendments in ASU 2017-08 are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim reporting periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020. This ASU should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption, and, in the period of adoption, the entity is required to provide disclosures about the change in accounting principle. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. Management does not expect ASU 2017-08 to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements and disclosures.
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2017-12, "Derivatives and Hedging - Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities"
ASU 2017-12 applies to all reporting entities that elect to apply hedge accounting. The hedge accounting requirements under current GAAP sometimes do not permit an entity to properly recognize the economic results of the hedging strategy in the financial statements, and they are difficult to understand and interpret. The amendments in this ASU make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance. Also, they better align the risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both 1) the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and 2) the presentation of hedge results. For public companies, the amendments in ASU 2017-12 are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim reporting periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted including adoption in any interim period after issuance of the ASU. All transition requirements and elections should be applied to hedging relationships existing on the date of adoption. The entity should apply a cumulative-effect adjustment related to eliminating the separate measurement of ineffectiveness to accumulated other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year that an entity adopts the amendments in this ASU. The amended presentation and disclosure guidance is required only prospectively. Management does not expect ASU 2017-12 to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements and disclosures.
ASU 2018-01 applies to entities with land easements that exist or expired before an entity’s adoption of Topic 842, provided that the entity does not account for those land easements as leases under Topic 840. The amendments in 
this ASU permit an entity to elect an optional transition practical expedient to not evaluate under Topic 842 land easements that exist or expired before the entity’s adoption of Topic 842 and that were not previously accounted for as leases under Topic 840. An entity that elects this practical expedient should apply the practical expedient consistently to all of its existing or expired land easements that were not previously accounted for as leases under Topic 840. Once an entity adopts Topic 842, it should apply that Topic prospectively to all new (or modified) land easements to determine whether the arrangement should be accounted for as a lease. An entity that does not elect this practical expedient should evaluate all existing or expired land easements in connection with the adoption of the new lease requirements in Topic 842 to assess whether they meet the definition of a lease. The amendments in this ASU affect the amendments in ASU 2016-02, which are not yet effective but may be early adopted. The effective date and transition requirements for the amendments are the same as the effective date and transition requirements in ASU 2016-02, which is for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Management does not expect ASU 2018-01 to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements and disclosures.
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2018-02, "Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income"
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2018-07, "Compensation - Stock Compensation - Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting"
ASU 2018-15 applies to entities that are a customer in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract. The amendments in this ASU align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. Accordingly, the amendments in this ASU require an entity in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract to follow the guidance in Subtopic 350-40 to determine which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense. Further, it requires the entity to expense the capitalized implementation costs over the term of the hosting arrangement. In addition, it requires the presentation of the expenses related to the capitalized implementation costs in the same line item in the statement of income as the fees associated with the hosting element of the arrangement and the classification of the payments for the capitalized implementation costs in the statement of cash flows in the same manner as the payments made for the fees associated with the hosting 
element. The amendments in this ASU are effective for public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. Management does not expect ASU 2018-15 to have a material impact on the Company's financial statement and disclosures.
Financial Assets and Liabilities that are Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
The Company’s money market instruments are reported at fair value based upon the daily market price for identical assets in active markets, and are therefore classified as Level 1. 
The Company did not record an other-than-temporary impairment of these financial assets during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018.
Non-financial Assets that are Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring Basis
Non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill, and intangible assets are required to be measured at fair value only when an impairment loss is recognized. The Company did not record an impairment charge related to these assets during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017.
The Company’s foreign currency risk management strategy is principally designed to mitigate the potential financial impact of changes in the value of transactions and balances denominated in foreign currencies resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Currently, the Company enters into two types of hedges to manage this risk. The first are economic hedges which utilize foreign currency forward contracts with maturities of up to 45 days to manage the exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates arising primarily from foreign-denominated receivables and payables. The gains and losses on these derivatives are intended to be offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets and liabilities being hedged. These economic hedges are not designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting treatment. The second are cash flow hedges which utilize foreign currency forward contracts with maturities of up to 18 months to hedge specific forecasted transactions of the Company's foreign subsidiaries with the goal of protecting the Company's budgeted revenues and expenses against foreign currency exchange rate changes compared to its budgeted rates. These cash flow hedges are designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting treatment. 
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," using the full retrospective method to present all periods reported on a consistent basis. Accordingly, prior-period results have been restated to apply the provisions of this ASC.
As a result of this adoption, revenue for software-only products sold as part of multiple-deliverable arrangements are no longer deferred when vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value does not exist for the undelivered elements of the arrangement. This change results in earlier recognition of revenue. In addition, certain of the Company’s product accessory sales, which were reported on a net basis, are now reported on a gross basis as a result of applying the expanded guidance in the new standard related to principal versus agent considerations. This change results in the Company reporting higher revenue and higher cost of revenue when these sales are reported on a gross basis, although the gross margin dollars do not change. Furthermore, for arrangements that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, revenue is recognized when the Company can objectively determine that control has been transferred to the customer in accordance with the agreed-upon specifications in the contract, which may occur before formal customer acceptance. This change primarily impacts revenue recognition for arrangements in the logistics industry where certain customer solutions include installed products and results in earlier recognition of revenue.
Costs to Fulfill a Contract
Accounts Receivable, Contract Assets, and Contract Liabilities
Accounts receivable represent amounts billed and currently due from customers which are reported at their net estimated realizable value. The Company maintains reserves against its accounts receivable for potential credit losses. Credit losses recognized on accounts receivable were immaterial for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, respectively. Contract assets consist of unbilled revenue which arises when revenue is recognized in advance of billing for certain application-specific customer solutions contracts. Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue and customer deposits which arise when amounts are billed to or collected from customers in advance of revenue recognition.
As a practical expedient, the Company has elected not to disclose the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations, as our contracts have an original expected duration of less than one year.
 (1) In addition to the vested options, the Company expects a portion of the unvested options to vest at some point in the future. Options expected to vest are calculated by applying an estimated forfeiture rate to the unvested options.
Expected dividend yield
Generally, the current dividend yield is calculated by annualizing the cash dividend declared by the Company’s Board of Directors and dividing that result by the closing stock price on the grant date. 
The expected term was derived from the binomial lattice model from the impact of events that trigger exercises over time.
The weighted-average grant-date fair values of stock options granted during the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 were $22.52 and $14.80, respectively. The weighted-average grant-date fair values of stock options granted during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 were $21.70 and $14.97, respectively. 
The total intrinsic values of stock options exercised for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 were $17,985,000 and $28,462,000, respectively. The total intrinsic values of stock options exercised for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 were $50,975,000 and $100,913,000, respectively. The total fair values of stock options vested for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 were $997,000 and $844,000, respectively. The total fair values of stock options vested for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 were $27,557,000 and $19,557,000, respectively. 
The fair values of restricted stock awards granted were determined based upon the market value of the Company's common stock at the time of grant. The initial cost was then amortized over the period of vesting until the restrictions lapsed. These restricted shares became fully vested in 2018. Participants were entitled to dividends on the restricted stock awards, but only received those amounts if the shares vested. The sale or transfer of these shares was restricted during the vesting period.
The total stock-based compensation expense and the related income tax benefit recognized for the three-month period ended September 30, 2018 were $9,143,000 and $1,654,000, respectively, and for the three-month period ended October 1, 2017 were $8,026,000 and $2,639,000, respectively. The total stock-based compensation expense and the related income tax benefit recognized for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 were $31,339,000 and $5,608,000, respectively, and for the nine-month period ended October 1, 2017 were $23,355,000 and $7,661,000, respectively. No compensation expense was capitalized as of September 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017.
In April 2017, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $100,000,000 of the Company's common stock. As of September 30, 2018, the Company had repurchased 1,744,000 shares at a cost of $100,000,000 under this program, including 803,000 shares at a cost of $45,200,000 in the three-month period ended April 1, 2018. Stock repurchases under this April 2017 program were completed in the three-month period ended April 1, 2018. In February 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $150,000,000 of the Company's common stock. As of September 30, 2018, the Company had repurchased 1,947,000 shares at a cost of $97,062,000 under this program, leaving a remaining authorized balance of $52,938,000. Total stock repurchases in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 amounted to $142,262,000. The Company may repurchase shares under this program in future periods depending upon a variety of factors, including, among other things, the impact of dilution from employee stock options, stock price, share availability, and cash requirements.
The excess tax benefit arising from the difference between the deduction for tax purposes and the compensation cost recognized for financial reporting purposes from stock option exercises resulted in a decrease of the effective tax rate by 4 and 7 percentage points for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, respectively, and a decrease of the effective tax rate by 5 and 13 percentage points for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, respectively. Certain reserves for income taxes and other provision-to-return adjustments resulted in a decrease of the effective tax rate by 2 percentage points for both the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 and a decrease of the effective tax rate by 1 percentage point for both the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017.
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standard Update (ASU) 2016-16, "Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory." This Update requires the recognition of deferred income taxes for an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory. As a result of this ASU, the Company recorded $5,961,000 through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings at the beginning of fiscal year 2018.
During the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018, the Company recorded a $204,000 increase in reserves for income taxes, net of deferred tax benefit. Estimated interest and penalties included in these amounts totaled $33,000 for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018.
Stock options to purchase 2,796,000 and 2,353,000 shares of common stock, on a weighted-average basis, were outstanding during the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and 466,000 and 3,108,000 for the same periods in 2017, but were not included in the calculation of dilutive net income per share because they were anti-dilutive.
On October 29, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.050 per share. The dividend is payable November 30, 2018 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on November 16, 2018. 
In addition, on October 29, 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $200,000,000 of the Company's common stock. This new authorization will commence once the Company completes the February 2018 program. 
