Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Forward Looking Statements 

Certain statements included in this report, including without limitation statements in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").
Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as "may", "will", "expect", "intend", "estimate", "anticipate", "believe", "project" or "continue", or the negative thereof, or other similar words.
All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to those listed in Item 1A of our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. Actual results may differ materially from those discussed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report and we assume no duty to update them.
As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, references to "we", "us", "our", the "Company" and "TransAct" refer to the consolidated operations of TransAct Technologies Incorporated, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Overview 

TransAct Technologies Incorporated ("TransAct") is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale ("POS") automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas.
Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the AccuDate™, Epic, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca® and Printrex® brand names.
Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels and transaction records such as receipts, tickets, coupons, register journals and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), value-added resellers ("VARs"), select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
