Item 4.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES      

Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2019.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2019, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.
No change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) occurred during the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2019 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS      

The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
As of June 30, 2019, we are unaware of any legal proceedings pending or threatened against the Company that management believes are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Item 1A.
RISK FACTORS      

Information regarding risk factors appears under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2018.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K, except as amended and supplemented by the additional risk factor below.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and the additional risk factor below are not the only risks facing our Company.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results.
The United Kingdom’s anticipated withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.
In 2016, the United Kingdom voted to depart from the European Union, known as Brexit and subsequently notified the European Council of its intention to leave the E.U.
and began to negotiate the terms of the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U.
upon exit.
We have taken certain actions in response to Brexit and in anticipation of E.U.
legal requirements and the U.K.’s separation from the E.U.
The potential impact from Brexit on us and on our results of operations is unclear.
The actual effects of Brexit will depend upon many factors, including the final results of the Brexit negotiations.
We do not, however, expect Brexit to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations as 15% and 10% of our total revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, are attributable to our U.K. operations.
However, we cannot predict the direction Brexit-related matters may take or the impact on our European operations, including our U.K. subsidiary.
Item 2.
Item 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES      

Not applicable.
Item 5.
Item 6.
EXHIBITS 



SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
