•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts;
•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes;
•Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally.
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
As of February 15, 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government have funding through appropriations through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
On July 22, 2019, the President and Congressional leadership announced an agreement on a new two-year budget deal, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019.
Both the budget deal and appropriations legislation are subject to passage by Congress.
If Congress is unable to approve appropriations by October 1st, the U.S. Government and its agencies may be subjected to funding restrictions through a Continuing Resolution or, if there is a failure to pass interim funding, potentially a government shutdown.
This change has caused a net increase in the reported cost of services and a net decrease in reported general and administrative expenses in 2019 as compared to 2018; however, total operating costs were not affected by this change.
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisition, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
Our effective income tax rates were 26% and 28% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The primary driver of the decrease in our effective tax rate was due to an increased benefit from our deferred compensation plan and stock option exercises as well as increased tax expense for 2018 related to a discrete item recognized in the second quarter of 2018.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisition, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase during the remainder of 2019 due to increased bid and proposal spending in the second half of 2019.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowing on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS).
We expect interest expense to increase for the remainder of 2019 due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
Our effective income tax rates were 25% and 25% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work.
Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts.
Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the U.S. government.
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our backlog was $8.6 billion and $8.4 billion, respectively.
Our funded backlog was $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
On June 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $5.9 million.
There were outstanding borrowings of $43.5 million under our revolving credit facility at June 30, 2019.
The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at June 30, 2019 were $448.8 million.
As of June 30, 2019, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $7.7 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.
Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts.
We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered.
Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 66 and 68 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from operating activities was $123.4 million and $35.0 million, respectively.
The increase in net cash flows from operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018 was primarily due to the timing of receivables collection.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 our net cash used in investing activities was $140.8 million, which was primarily due to the acquisition of KGS and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments and capitalized software for internal use.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 our net cash used in investing activities was $20.1 million, which was primarily due to the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments and capitalized software for internal use.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, our net cash flow from financing activities was $18.0 million, which was primarily due to net borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018, our net cash used in financing activities were $17.2 million, which was primarily due to dividend payments.
We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year.
We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible.
Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we declared and paid quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.27 per share and $0.25 per share, respectively, on both classes of our common stock.
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers.
We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $7.6 million.
Our significant accounting policies for 2018 are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the SEC.
There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates and policies from those discussed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than lease accounting associated with the implementation of ASC 842, which is described below.
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payments to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owed by us under residual guarantees.
Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU assets and lease liabilities because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.
We exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred from our lease payments.
Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term.
Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability - they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.
For finance leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability by using the effective interest rate method.
We recognize the ROU asset at cost, reduced by any accumulated depreciation.
Together, the interest expense and depreciation expense result in a front-loaded expense profile.
We have also elected not to apply the recognition and measurement requirements to short-term leases (less than 1 year).
Additional details are included in Note 4 in our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1.
amendments to the Japanese Welfare Pension Insurance Law; and (3) related party disclosures concerning the amount of future annual benefits covered by insurance and annuity contracts and significant transactions between the employer or related parties and the plan.
We are currently evaluating the effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
prior to the amendments in ASU 2017-04, had to perform procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities, including unrecognized assets and liabilities, in accordance with the procedure that would be required in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination.
Early adoption is permitted for all entities for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017.
We will evaluate adopting when we perform our goodwill impairment test in 2019.
We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
