•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; and
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts.
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
However, a number of federal civilian agencies, including the Departments of Homeland Security and State, have been funded under a Continuing Resolution (CR) at 2018 funding levels through early December 2018.
Appropriations for the Department of Defense include near term expansions that aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors.
For agencies operating under the CR, funding appropriations are expected to be debated by Congress after the midterm elections.
We expect future appropriations to be debated with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act.
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenues from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and acquisitions.
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 39% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 38% for the same period in 2017.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4.
Acquisitions to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
Our effective income tax rates were 24% and 35% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The primary driver of our increase in revenue relates to revenues from new contract awards and growth on existing contracts, including higher levels of material procurements, and acquisitions.
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, other direct costs, which include subcontractors as well as equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 38% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 37% for the same period in 2017.
We expect cost of services as a percentage of revenues to remain steady or slightly increase for the remainder of 2018 due to the potential for higher levels of materials in the last quarter of the year.
The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure.
The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
Our effective income tax rates were 25% and 36% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts, and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts.
Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the U.S. government.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our backlog was $8.3 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively.
Our funded backlog was $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
On September 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $15.0 million.
There were no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018.
The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018 were $484.7 million.
As of September 30, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.
We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered.
Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 67 and 68 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, our net cash from operating activities was $94.2 million and $115.2 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 our net cash used in investing activities was $36.8 million, which was primarily used for the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments, closing working capital payment related to the purchase of InfoZen and capitalized software for internal use.
For the remainder of the year, we expect similar levels of capital expenditures, as compared to the first nine months of the year, for the purchase of equipment to support our infrastructure and managed IT service contracts, with the potential for additional increases in future years.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, our net cash used in financing activities were $19.9 million, which were primarily due to dividends paid partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options.
We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible.
Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we declared and paid quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.25 per share and $0.21 per share, respectively, on both classes of our common stock.
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers.
We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $15.2 million.
We have off-balance sheet arrangements related to operating leases.
For a description of our operating leases, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
Our significant accounting policies for 2017 are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations.
Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract.
It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled.
include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
We recognize revenue over time when there is a continuous transfer of control to our customer.
For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process.
When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation.
Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time.
For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress.
Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses.
For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract.
If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time.
Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the good or service is transferred to our customer.
We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title.
Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized.
Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements.
Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations.
The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue under the cumulative catch-up method.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified.
ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts.
Among other things, it requires companies to identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue should be recognized at a point in time or over time.
It also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method that applied to those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018.
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
an entity is required to apply modification accounting under the amendments in ASU 2017-09.
The adoption of this ASU did not have an effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Among other things, ASU 2016-02 requires recognition of a right-of-use asset and liability for future lease payments for contracts that meet the definition of a lease and requires disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
ASU 2016-02 will be effective January 1, 2019, although early adoption is permitted, and may be adopted using a modified retrospective transition method that applies the new lease requirements at the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements.
The FASB has proposed a change that would allow a company to elect an optional transition method that applies the new lease requirements through a cumulative-effect adjustment in the period of adoption.
We expect to adopt the standard on January 1, 2019.
We are currently evaluating methods of adoption as well as the effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
However, it is expected to increase total assets and total liabilities for operating leases that are not currently recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
the timing of liquidation of an investee’s assets and the date that restrictions from redemption might lapse, only if the investee has communicated the timing to the entity or announced the timing publicly; and (3) it is clear that the measurement uncertainty disclosure is to communicate information about the uncertainty in measurement as of the reporting date.
Additionally, the ASU adds disclosure requirements for public entities about (1) the changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period, and (2) the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements.
The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
The amendments regarding changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.
All other amendments should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date.
Note that early application is permitted for all entities; moreover, an entity is allowed to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of this ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date.
We are currently evaluating when we will adopt this standard as well as its effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
the stranded tax effects resulting from the TCJA, and improving the usefulness of information reported to financial statement users.
We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
