See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in the annual financial statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., have been condensed or omitted pursuant to those rules and regulations.
We recommend that you read these condensed consolidated financial statements in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
Revenue Recognition - On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an increase to the 2018 opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition.
The impact to revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was immaterial as a result of applying ASC 606.
At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations.
Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract.
It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process.
of the performance obligation.
Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time.
For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress.
Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses.
For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract.
Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized.
Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements.
Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations.
The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue under the cumulative catch-up method.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified.
The risks and opportunities include management’s judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the contract milestones and other technical contract requirements.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $2.6 million.
No adjustment on any one contract was material to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Revenue for cost-reimbursable contracts were recorded as reimbursable costs were incurred, including an estimated share of the applicable contractual fees earned.
For performance-based fees under cost-reimbursable contracts, we recognized the relevant portion of the expected fee to be awarded by the customer at the time such fee can be reasonably estimated, based on factors such as our prior award experience and communications with the customer regarding performance, or upon approval by the customer.
For time-and-materials contracts, revenue was recognized to the extent of billable rates times hours delivered plus materials and other reimbursable costs incurred.
For long-term fixed-price contracts, revenue was recognized at a rate per unit as the units were delivered or by other methods to measure services provided.
Revenue from other long-term fixed-price contracts were recognized ratably over the contract period or by other appropriate methods to measure services provided.
Contract costs were expensed as incurred except for certain limited long-term contracts noted below.
For long-term contracts, specifically described in the scope section of ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts, we applied the percentage of completion method.
Under the percentage of completion method, income was recognized at a consistent profit margin over the period of performance based on estimated profit margins at completion of the contract.
This method of accounting required estimating the total revenue and total contract cost at completion of the contract.
These estimates were periodically reviewed and revisions were made as required using the cumulative catch-up method.
In certain circumstances, revenue was recognized when contract amendments were not finalized.
Contract assets - Amounts are invoiced as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals or upon achievement of contractual milestones.
Generally, revenue recognition occurs before billing, resulting in contract assets.
These contract assets are referred to as unbilled receivables and are reported within receivables, net on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The portion of the payments retained by the customer until final contract settlement is not considered a significant financing component because the intent is to protect the customer.
Contract liabilities typically are not considered a significant financing component because it is used to meet working capital demands that can be higher in the early stages of a contract and to protect us from the customer failing to adequately complete some or all of its obligations under the contract.
Contract liabilities are reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheet on a net contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
Other incremental costs are expensed when incurred.
Costs of fulfilling a contract that relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that can be specifically identified, generate or enhance resources that will be used in satisfying future performance obligations and are expected to be recovered are recognized as deferred contract costs and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer of the goods or services to the customer.
Deferred contract costs - Costs of obtaining or fulfilling a contract that meet the criteria in ASC 340, Other Assets and Deferred Costs, are capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer of goods or services to the customer.
At March 31, 2018, we had $3.1 million of deferred contract costs.
For the period ending March 31, 2018 we recorded amortization expense of $0.1 million.
We have one reportable segment.
Offices or divisions within an agency or department of the U.S. government may directly, or through a prime contractor, use our services as a separate customer as long as the customer has independent decision-making and contracting authority within its organization.
The following tables discloses revenue (in thousands) by contract type, customer, prime or subcontractor and geography for the periods presented.
We do not believe that we have significant exposure to credit risk as billed receivable and unbilled receivables are primarily due from the U.S. government.
The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our estimate for exposure to compliance, contractual issues and bad debts related to prime contractors.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $2.3 million.
The remaining performance obligation as of March 31, 2018 is $2.3 billion.
The following table discloses when we expect to recognize the remaining performance obligation as revenue (in billions).
The preliminary purchase price of $184.0 million, which includes an estimated working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.
As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and in finalizing the closing working capital adjustment, the purchase price allocation for InfoZen is not complete as of March 31, 2018.
Recognition of goodwill is largely attributed to the value paid for InfoZen's capabilities to support customers in modernization, agile software development, cloud migration and threat monitoring and assessment capabilities.
The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $49.2 million and $5.7 million, respectively.
Customer contracts and related relationships represent the underlying relationships and agreements with InfoZen's existing customers.
Backlog is amortized straight-line over its estimated useful life of 1 year.
Under that method, basic and diluted earnings per share data are presented for each class of common stock.
In applying the two-class method, we determined that undistributed earnings should be allocated equally on a per share basis between Class A and Class B common stock.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we declared and paid quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.25 per share and $0.21 per share, respectively, on both classes of common stock.
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, options to purchase 310,745 shares and 158,074 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, there were 203,854 shares and 53,724 shares, respectively, issued from the exercise of stock options.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were 86,233 shares issued from the vesting of restricted stock units.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $5.9 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
The credit agreement also includes an accordion feature that permits us to arrange with the lenders for the provision of additional commitments.
The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination of the loan commitments at any time, subject to certain conditions.
The credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain leverage ratios and a certain consolidated coverage ratio.
As of and during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.
There was $65.5 million and $31.0 million outstanding on our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The maximum available borrowing under the revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018 was $419.2 million.
Contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts, are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements and, from time-to-time, agencies of the U.S. government, in the ordinary course of business, investigate whether our operations are conducted in accordance with these requirements and the terms of the relevant contracts.
Management believes it has adequately reserved for any losses that may be experienced from any investigation of which it is aware.
The Defense Contract Audit Agency has substantially completed our incurred cost audits through 2012 with no material adjustments.
In the normal course of business, we are involved in certain governmental and legal proceedings, claims and disputes and have litigation pending under several suits.
We are a defendant in a lawsuit filed by two former employees alleging retaliation under both the False Claims Act (FCA) and the Defense Contractor Whistleblower Protection Act (DCWPA).
The trial court has awarded damages for front pay, back pay and attorneys' fees and costs.
Both parties filed appeals to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals.
On March 20, 2018, oral arguments were held for our appeal and plaintiff's cross-appeal, which are pending adjudication.
Through the appeals process, our liability could be reduced or, if the plaintiffs are successful, increased by $0.8 million.
As of March 31, 2018, we accrued a liability of $2.3 million and recorded a receivable for $2.8 million.
We have an insurance policy that covers the amount of the liability, therefore, no loss was recognized as of the three months ended March 31, 2018.
We have $15.3 million outstanding on our letter of credit, of which $15.2 million is related to an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
Our 2016 Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) was designed to attract, retain and motivate key employees.
The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs).
Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock.
At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year.
On January 2, 2018, there were 588,464 additional shares made available for issuance under the Plan.
Through March 31, 2018, the Board of Directors has authorized the issuance of up to 14,551,899 shares under this Plan.
Through March 31, 2018, the remaining aggregate number of shares of our common stock available for future grants under the Plan was 6,260,256.
The Plan expires in March 2026.
The Plan is administered by the compensation committee of our Board of Directors, along with its delegates.
Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the committee has the Board of Directors’ authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including the discretion to determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, contractual life and the number of shares to be issued.
Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $1.1 million and $1.0 million of stock-based compensation expense, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $(1.1) million and $0.1 million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock.
Under the terms of the Plan, the contractual life of the option grants may not exceed eight years.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
Fair Value Determination—We have used the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of our awards on the date of grant.
We will reconsider the use of the Black-Scholes-Merton model if additional information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated under this model.
•Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury strips was used to extrapolate a forward-yield curve.
This “term structure” of future interest rates was then input into a numeric model to provide the equivalent risk-free rate to be used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model based on the expected term of the underlying grants.
•Dividend Yield—The Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model requires an expected dividend yield as an input.
We have calculated our expected dividend yield based on an expected annual cash dividend of $1.00 per share.
Stock Option Activity—The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, as determined under the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model, was $9.96 and $5.63, respectively.
Option grants that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 had a combined fair value of $0.7 million and $0.8 million, respectively.
Unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested awards was $5.4 million as of March 31, 2018, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3 years.
Restricted Stock—Under the Plan, we have issued restricted stock.
A restricted stock award is an issuance of shares that cannot be sold or transferred by the recipient until the vesting period lapses.
Restricted stock issued to members of our Board of Directors vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date.
The grant date fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant.
Restricted Stock Activity— There was no restricted stock activity during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The following table summarizes the restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2017.
RSUs—Under the Plan, we have issued RSUs.
RSUs are not actual shares, but rather a right to receive shares in the future.
The shares are not issued and the employee cannot sell or transfer shares prior to vesting and have no voting rights until the RSUs vest.
Employees who are granted RSUs do not receive dividend payments during the vesting period.
In 2018, our employees were granted time-based RSUs, instead of performance-based RSUs.
The grant date fair value of the RSUs is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of dividends expected to be awarded during the service period.
We recognize the grant date fair value of RSUs of shares we expect to issue as compensation expense ratably over the requisite service period.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) was enacted on December 22, 2017.
TCJA reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of TCJA.
