•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes;
•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts; and
We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
As of February 15, 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government have funding through appropriations through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
A number of federal civilian agencies, including the Departments of Homeland Security and State operated under a Continuing Resolution through late December and then endured a 35-day lapse in funding prior to receiving appropriations in mid-February.
We expect future appropriations to be debated with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act.
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for both the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 38% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to 37% for the same period in 2018.
The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to reduced bid and proposal spending and amortization of acquisition intangibles offset by increased spending on infrastructure.
We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase during the remainder of 2019 due to the acquisition of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS) and increased bid and proposal spending.
The decrease in interest expense was due to repayment of debt on our revolving line of credit.
We expect interest expense to increase for the remainder of 2019 due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of KGS.
For additional information, see Note 11 in our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
Our effective income tax rates were 25% and 22% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The primary driver of the increase in our effective tax rate was due to a reduction in the tax benefit related to stock-based compensation.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts.
Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the U.S. government.
At both March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our backlog was $8.4 billion.
Our funded backlog was $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
On March 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $120.5 million.
There were outstanding borrowings of $96.0 million under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2019.
The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2019 were $396.3 million.
We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered.
Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 70 and 69 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from (used in) operating activities was $47.3 million and $(18.0) million, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 our net cash used in investing activities was $10.2 million, which was primarily due to the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments and capitalized software for internal use.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 our net cash used in investing activities was $9.0 million, which was primarily due to the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments and capitalized software for internal use.
The net increase in borrowings for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is due to funding requirements to acquire Kforce Government Solutions on April 1, 2019.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash flow from financing activities were $27.9 million, which were primarily due to net borrowings under our revolving credit facility and exercise of stock options partially offset by dividend payments.
We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year.
We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible.
Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days.
In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers.
We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
Our significant accounting policies for 2018 are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the SEC.
There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates and policies from those discussed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than lease accounting associated with the implementation of ASC 842, which is described below.
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payment to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owned by us under residual guarantees.
Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU asset and lease liability because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.
We exclude lease incentives and initial direct cost incurred from our lease payments.
Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term.
The amortization of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance.
Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability - they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.
For finance leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability by using the effective interest rate method.
We recognize the ROU asset at cost, reduced by any accumulated depreciation.
The ROU asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis.
Together, the interest expense and amortization expense result in a front-loaded expense profile.
We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method at the beginning of the period of adoption, January 1, 2019, through the recognition of a lease liability and corresponding right of use asset.
We elected the following transition related practical expedients; not to reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, not to reassess lease classification as determined under ASC 840 and, not to reassess initial direct costs for any existing lease.
We have also elected not to apply the recognition and measurement requirements to short-term leases (less than 1 year).
Additional details are included in Note 4 in our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1.
and purchases and issues of Level 3 assets and liabilities; (2) for investments in certain entities that calculate net asset value, an entity is required to disclose the timing of liquidation of an investee’s assets and the date that restrictions from redemption might lapse, only if the investee has communicated the timing to the entity or announced the timing publicly; and (3) it is clear that the measurement uncertainty disclosure is to communicate information about the uncertainty in measurement as of the reporting date.
Additionally, the ASU adds disclosure requirements for public entities about (1) the changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period, and (2) the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements.
The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
The amendments regarding changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.
All other amendments should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date.
Note that early application is permitted for all entities; moreover, an entity is allowed to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of this ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date.
We are currently evaluating when we will adopt this standard as well as its effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
