fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.


item1.txt
Effective January 1, 2018 we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No.
2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with customers, or Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 606 using the full retrospective method, as discussed in detail in Note 5.
All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been updated to comply with ASC 606, as indicated by the “as adjusted” footnote.
Certain reclassifications and immaterial revisions have been made to the prior period financial statements to conform to the current-year presentation.
The table below summarizes previously reported and restated amounts on a comparative basis.
Footnote 9, Earnings Per Share provides more detail on the two-class method calculation.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”.
The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Company is organized into two reportable operating segments.
worldwide.
In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers.
Dividend Policy and Share Repurchase Program.
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 and $0.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $1.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
Stock Volatility.
This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time.
On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, stock-based compensation, contingencies and litigation.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Item 2. first quarter of 2018.


