fls.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.


item1.txt
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02").
2018-11, Targeted Improvements.
The Company adopted the new accounting standard on January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective transition option.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases.
The Company also recognized corresponding ROU assets, net of lease incentives of approximately $2.2 million.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
2016-13 on its Consolidated Financial Statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
The effective date of the standard is dependent on the facts and circumstances of each amendment.
Some amendments do not require transition guidance and will be effective upon the issuance of this standard.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2019.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide.
We derive the majority of our net sales though the sale of third-party software licenses, maintenance and service agreements.
In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers.
Dividend Policy and Share Repurchase Program.
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and less than $0.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, respectively.
Stock Volatility.
We adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on retrospective basis effective January 1, 2018.
Under ASC 606 net sales for certain maintenance, service and security products we sell are recorded net of the related cost of sales.
We refer to these items as being recorded on a “net basis” in the discussion below.
This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 2.


