fls.txt
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2018.


item1.txt
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been updated to comply with ASC 606 as discussed in Note 5.
Certain reclassifications and immaterial revisions have been made to the prior period financial statements to conform to the current-year presentation.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2018.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide.
In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers.
Dividend Policy and Share Repurchase Program.
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and $0.02 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.1 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, respectively.
Stock Volatility.
We adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on retrospective basis effective January 1, 2018.
Under ASC 606 net sales for certain maintenance, service and security products we sell are recorded net of the related cost of sales.
We refer to these items as being recorded on a “net basis” in the discussion below.
Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.
This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time.


item3.txt



item4.txt
·    Hire and train appropriate personnel or professionals sufficient to manage the complexity, timing, and ever changing nature of our business and financial reporting requirements.


part2.txt
Item 2. third quarter of 2018.


