fls.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.


item1.txt
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02").
2018-11, Targeted Improvements.
The Company adopted the new accounting standard on January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective transition option.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases.
The Company also recognized corresponding ROU assets, net of lease incentives of approximately $2.2 million.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
2016-13 on its Consolidated Financial Statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
It expands the scope of ASC 718 to include share-based payments granted to nonemployees in exchange for goods or services used or consumed in the entity’s own operations and supersedes the guidance in ASC 505-50.
The effective date of the standard is dependent on the facts and circumstances of each amendment.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2019.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software and hardware to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide.
In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers.
Dividend Policy and Share Repurchase Program.
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and less than $0.1 million during the three months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.9 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Stock Volatility.
We adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on retrospective basis effective January 1, 2018.
We refer to these items as being recorded on a “net basis” in the discussion below.
The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time.
These estimates require significant judgement to determine whether the software’s functionality is dependent on ongoing maintenance or if substantially all functionality is available in the original software download.
At times the Company sells receivables to a financial institution on a non-recourse basis for cash, less a discount.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-offs may be required.
The Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 2. second quarter of 2019.


