item1.txt
Item 5.
Other Information 
Item 6.
Exhibits 
31.2       Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1       Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2       Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


item2.txt
We remain focused on executing our strategy for growth while streamlining the organization and emphasizing continuous improvement in quality, delivery, cost and innovation as we drive the One Allied approach and expand our value proposition for our customers.
Solid strides continue to be made with our multi-product, fully integrated solutions that are leading to increased business.
Also, we continue to build a pipeline of exciting market-based application opportunities.
Sales cycles 
are long and the time from being selected for the solution development to full rate production can be longer, yet we believe we continue to build a scalable foundation which can deliver strong returns on those investments.
Sales to U.S. customers were 54% of total sales for the first quarter 2019 compared with 53% for the same period last year, with the balance of sales to customers primarily in Europe, Canada and Asia.
The overall increase in revenue was due to an 27% volume increase offset by a 4% unfavorable currency impact.
Revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are provided for information purposes only and are not measures of financial performance under GAAP.
The Company believes that revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts is a useful measure in analyzing organic sales results.
The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from revenue for this measure because currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends.
The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between the current period revenue and the current period revenue after applying foreign exchange rates from the prior period.
The Company believes EBITDA is often a useful measure of a Company’s operating performance and is a significant basis used by the Company’s management to measure the operating performance of the Company’s business because EBITDA excludes charges for depreciation, amortization and interest expense that have resulted from our debt financings, as well as our provision for income tax expense.
EBITDA is frequently used as one of the bases for comparing businesses in the Company’s industry.
The Company also believes that Adjusted EBITDA provides helpful information about the operating performance of its business.
Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock compensation expense, as well as certain income or expenses which are not indicative of the ongoing performance of the Company.
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not represent and should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, net cash provided by operating activities or any other measure for determining operating performance or liquidity that is calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
During the first quarter of 2019, the decrease in cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to an increase in working capital needs to support the sequential quarter, primarily for trade receivables.
The significant cash used in investing activities in the first quarter 2018 reflects the acquisition the Maval OE Steering business.
Purchases of property and equipment were $2,505 during the first quarter 2019 compared to $2,222 for the first quarter 2018.
Capital expenditures are expected to increase for the remainder of 2019 to support our continued growth.
The Company expects to invest between $15 million and $18 million in capital expenditures during 2019.
During 2019, the Company utilized revolver borrowings to fund working capital to support the growth seen from fourth quarter 2018 along with the payment of annual incentive compensation amounts.
The cash used in financing activities in first quarter 2018 reflects the use of the revolver to partially finance the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business.
At March 31, 2019, we had $129,502 of obligations under the Revolving Facility excluding the unamortized debt issue costs.
The Credit Agreement contains certain financial covenants related to minimum interest coverage and total leverage ratio at the end of each quarter.
The Credit Agreement also includes other covenants and restrictions, including limits on the amount of additional indebtedness, and restrictions on the ability to merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all our assets.
We were in compliance with all covenants at March 31, 2019.
There were no borrowings for the China Facility balance during the quarter ended March 31, 2019.


item3.txt
Item 3.
Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk 
We translate all assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, where the U.S. dollar is not the functional currency, at the period-end exchange rate and translate sales and expenses at the average exchange rates in effect during the period.
The net effect of these translation adjustments is recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as Comprehensive Income.
The translation adjustment was a loss of approximately $900 and a gain of approximately $600 for the first quarter 
of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Translation adjustments are not adjusted for income taxes as they relate to permanent investments in our foreign subsidiaries.
Net foreign currency transaction gains and losses included in other income, net amounted to approximately a loss of $100 and $138 for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
A hypothetical 10% change in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to our most significant foreign currency net assets would have had an impact of approximately $6,700 on our foreign net assets as of March 31, 2019.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (principal accounting officer), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of March 31, 2019.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Based on management’s evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2019, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.


part2.txt
Item 5.
Other Information 
Item 6.
Exhibits 
31.2       Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1       Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2       Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


