fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected in these interim financial statements.
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No.
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate debt securities.
Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
These costs and discounts are amortized and included in interest expense over the life of the borrowing or term of the credit facility using the effective interest method.
j2 Global measures the contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Digital Media revenues are earned primarily from the delivery of advertising services and from subscriptions to services and information.
Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, certain data products or services to customers.
Revenues are also earned from listing fees, subscriptions to online publications, and from other sources.


item2.txt
In addition to historical information, we have also made forward-looking statements in this report.
Our Cloud Services segment generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our Digital Media segment generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates.
As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to enhance our existing offerings and offer new services to continue to satisfy the evolving needs of our customers.
This variability can cause the overall segment’s financial results to materially vary from period to period.
The main focus of our advertising programs is to provide relevant and useful advertising to visitors to our websites and those included within our advertising networks, reflecting our commitment to constantly improve their overall web experience.
Growth in advertising revenues from our websites has generally exceeded that from third-party websites.


item3.txt
j2 Global undertakes no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements.


item4.txt
Item 4.Controls and Procedures Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information None.


part2.txt
Item 1A.


