fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of j2 Global and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.
It is suggested that these financial statements be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report (Form 10-K) filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018. j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect.
The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media segment are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience.
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
The Company has made an accounting policy election to exclude from the measurement of the transaction price all taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are (i) both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction and (ii) collected by the Company from a customer.
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No.
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate and governmental debt securities.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
The Company accounts for its investments in equity securities in accordance with ASC Topic No.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
Any unrealized gains or losses will be reported in current earnings (see Note 5 - Investments).
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
These costs and discounts are amortized and included in interest expense over the life of the borrowing or term of the credit facility using the effective interest method.
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.


item2.txt
Through our Cloud Services segment, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties.
Our Cloud Services segment generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our Digital Media segment generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.
The Cloud Services segment also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period.
Our critical accounting policies are described in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates.


item3.txt
j2 Global undertakes no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition to the other information set forth in this report, before deciding to invest in j2 Global or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “10-K Risk Factors”) as well as in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or to be filed by us in 2018.
As of December 31, 2017, we recorded a provisional income tax charge of $49.2 million for the transition tax on deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income.
Additionally, the tax project initiated by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) on Base Erosion and Profit Sharing (“BEPS”) and other similar initiatives could adversely affect our worldwide effective tax rate.
With the finalization of specific actions contained within the OECD’s BEPS study, many OECD countries have acknowledged their intention to implement the actions and update their local tax laws.


