fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company believes that its most significant estimates are those related to revenue recognition, valuation and impairment of investments, its assessment of ownership interests as variable interest entities and the related determination of consolidation, share-based compensation expense, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations, long-lived and intangible asset impairment, contingent consideration, income taxes and contingencies and allowances for doubtful accounts.
J2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No.
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate debt securities.
Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
See Note 5, “Investments”.
Under ASC Topic 323, Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures, an investor that holds investments that qualify for specialized industry accounting for investment companies in accordance with ASC 946 should record its share of the earnings or losses, realized or unrealized, as reported by its equity method investees in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV.
J2 Global measures the contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Digital Media revenues are earned primarily from the delivery of advertising services, from subscriptions to services, data and information, and from licensing.
Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, data products or services to customers.


item2.txt
Our Cloud Services business generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our Digital Media business generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.
This variability can cause the overall business’s financial results to materially vary from period to period.
The main focus of our advertising programs is to provide relevant and useful advertising to visitors to our websites and those included within our advertising networks, reflecting our commitment to constantly improve their overall web experience.
Growth in advertising revenues from our websites has generally exceeded that from third-party websites.
We expect this trend to continue to put pressure on our margins.
Moreover, future acquisitions of businesses within this space but with different business models may impact Digital Media’s overall profit margins.


item3.txt
J2 Global undertakes no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements.
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and borrowings under our Credit Facility that bear variable market interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
See Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1) for information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.


