fls.txt



item1.txt
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
If the Company is acting as an agent in a transaction, the Company reports revenue on a net basis.
820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No.
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate debt securities.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
All debt securities are accounted for on a specific identification basis.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
See Note 5, “Investments”.
The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV.
Property and equipment are stated at cost.
The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years.
The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment.
j2 Global measures the contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.


item2.txt
In addition to historical information, we have also made forward-looking statements in this report.
Our Cloud Services business generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our Digital Media business generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.
This variability can cause the overall business’s financial results to materially vary from period to period.
Growth in advertising revenues from our websites has generally exceeded that from third-party websites.
We expect this trend to continue to put pressure on our margins.
Our revenues consist of revenues from our Cloud Services business and from our Digital Media business.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof.


item4.txt
Item 4.Controls and Procedures Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information None.


part2.txt
See Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1) for information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.


