item1.txt
The impact of the errors in the three months ended July 2, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $10.4 million and $1.3 million, respectively.
The impact of the errors in the six months ended July 2, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $16.5 million and $4.3 million, respectively.
ASU 2014-09 requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments.
Adoption resulted in a $3.0 million and $46.9 million decrease to other current assets and other long-lived assets, respectively, as well as an $18.2 million increase in deferred income tax assets and a $31.7 million decrease to retained earnings on January 1, 2018.
Adoption resulted in a $0.3 million and $0.6 million increase to operating income for the three and six months ended July 2, 2017, respectively, but no changes to net income.
We recorded a net increase to retained earnings of $2.6 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, with the impact primarily related to sales commissions and software revenues within our Industrial Solutions segment.
There was no impact to revenues for the three months ended July 1, 2018, and the impact to revenues for the six months ended July 1, 2018 was a decrease of $0.1 million as a result of applying Topic 606.
For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied.
Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was not significant during the three and six months ended July 1, 2018.
Estimated price adjustments recognized against our gross accounts receivable balance as of July 1, 2018 totaled $26.6 million.
As of January 1, 2018, total deferred revenue was $104.4 million, and $46.6 million and $98.6 million of this amount was recognized as revenue during the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively.
As of July 1, 2018, total deferred revenue was $96.4 million, and of this amount, $84.7 million will be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $11.7 million is long-term and will be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.
Total sales commissions costs were $6.3 million and $12.5 million during the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively.
The preliminary measurement of receivables; inventories; property, plant and equipment; intangible assets; goodwill; deferred income taxes; deferred revenue; and other assets and liabilities are subject to change.
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our estimate of the preliminary fair value for the acquired inventory; property, plant, and equipment; intangible assets; and deferred revenue on a preliminary valuation study performed by a third party valuation firm.
We have estimated a preliminary fair value adjustment for inventories based on the estimated selling price of the work-in-process and finished goods acquired at the closing date less the sum of the costs to complete the work-in-process, the costs of disposal, and a reasonable profit allowance for our post acquisition selling efforts.
plant, and equipment, we used various valuation methods, including both the market approach, which considers sales prices of similar assets in similar conditions (Level 2 valuation), and the cost approach, which considers the cost to replace the asset adjusted for depreciation (Level 3 valuation).
We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the preliminary fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and deferred revenue (Level 3 valuation).
For purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the three months ended July 2, 2017 includes nonrecurring expenses related to the acquisition, including severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; amortization of the sales backlog intangible asset; and cost of sales arising from the adjustment of inventory to fair value of $20.3 million, $0.5 million, and $0.7 million, respectively.
For purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the six months ended July 2, 2017 includes nonrecurring expenses related to the acquisition, including severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; amortization of the sales backlog intangible asset; and cost of sales arising from the adjustment of inventory to fair value of $29.5 million, $1.8 million, and $1.5 million, respectively.
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our estimate of the fair value for the acquired inventory, intangible assets, and deferred revenue on a valuation study performed by a third party valuation firm.
discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the preliminary fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and deferred revenue (Level 3 valuation).
Our consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes for the three months ended July 1, 2018 included $9.6 million and $(0.8) million, respectively, from Thinklogical.
Our consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes for the six months ended July 1, 2018 included $17.4 million and $(3.0) million, respectively, from Thinklogical.
Effective December 31, 2017, we sold the MCS business and Hirschmann JV for a total purchase price of $40.2 million, which was collected in the six months ended July 1, 2018.
Segment Revenues represent non-affiliate revenues and include revenues that would have otherwise been recorded by acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations due to the effects of purchase accounting and the associated write-down of acquired deferred revenue to fair value.
Segment EBITDA excludes certain items, including depreciation expense; amortization of intangibles; asset impairment; severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; purchase accounting effects related to acquisitions, such as the adjustment of acquired inventory and deferred revenue to fair value; and other costs.
six months ended July 1, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.3 million and 0.2 million, respectively, because the related performance conditions have not been satisfied.
Furthermore, for both the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include the impact of preferred shares that are convertible into 6.9 million common shares, because deducting the preferred stock dividends from net income was more dilutive.
For both the three and six months ended July 2, 2017, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.4 million because to do so would have been anti-dilutive.
In addition, for both the three and six months ended July 2, 2017, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.2 million because the related performance conditions have not been satisfied.
Furthermore, for both the three and six months ended July 2, 2017, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include the impact of preferred shares that are convertible into 6.9 million common shares because deducting the preferred stock dividends from net income was more dilutive.
We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $25.5 million and $50.2 million in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively.
We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $27.1 million and $50.8 million in the three and six months ended July 2, 2017, respectively.
We recognized $20.3 million and $29.5 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively.
We recognized $3.9 million and $11.4 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively.
We recognized $8.2 million and $13.9 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and six months ended July 2, 2017, respectively.
To date, we have incurred a total of $59.8 million in severance and other restructuring costs, including manufacturing inefficiencies for this program.
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the three months ended July 1, 2018, $7.2 million, $14.5 million, and $3.2 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively.
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the three months ended July 2, 2017, $8.2 million and $1.4 million were included in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses, respectively.
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the six months ended July 1, 2018, $16.6 million, $23.9 million, and $4.8 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively.
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the six months ended July 2, 2017, $14.1 million and $2.1 million were included in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses, respectively.
In March 2018, we repurchased $188.7 million of the $200.0 million 2024 Notes outstanding for cash consideration of $199.8 million, including a prepayment penalty and recognized a $13.8 million loss on debt extinguishment including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
In April 2018, we repurchased the remaining 2024 Notes outstanding for cash consideration of $11.9 million, including a prepayment penalty, and recognized a $0.8 million loss on debt extinguishment including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
In March 2018, we repurchased €143.1 million of the €200.0 million 2023 Notes outstanding for cash consideration of €147.8 million ($182.1 million), including a prepayment penalty and recognized a $6.2 million loss on debt extinguishment including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
In April 2018, we repurchased the remaining 2023 Notes outstanding for cash consideration of €58.5 million ($71.6 million), including a prepayment penalty, and recognized a $2.2 million loss on debt extinguishment including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
The fair value of our senior subordinated notes as of July 1, 2018 was approximately $1,485.7 million based on quoted prices of the debt instruments in inactive markets (Level 2 valuation).
•We recognized an income tax benefit of $1.2 million in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 due to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions of prior years.
•We recognized income tax expense of $1.8 million in the six months ended July 1, 2018 as a result of a change in our valuation allowance on foreign tax credits associated with our euro debt refinancing.
•We also recognized income tax expense of $0.5 million in the six months ended July 1, 2018 as a result of changes in our valuation allowance for the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (the Act).
On December 22, 2017, SAB 118 was issued to address the application of US GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act. During 2018, we obtained additional information affecting the provisional amount initially recorded for the valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credits in 2017.
During the three months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 0.4 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $24.7 million and an average price per share of $63.75.
During the six months ended July 1, 2018, we repurchased 1.4 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $100.0 million and an average price per share of $69.53.
If we are unable to achieve our goals related to growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.
To achieve these goals, our strategic priorities are reliant on our Belden Business System, which includes continuing deployment of our MDS so as to capture market share through end-user engagement, channel management, outbound marketing, and careful vertical market selection; improving our recruitment and development of talented associates; developing strong global business platforms; acquiring businesses that fit our strategic plan; and becoming a leading Lean company.
Some of the integration challenges we might face include differences in corporate culture and management styles, additional or conflicting governmental regulations, preparation of the acquired operations for adoption of ASC 606, compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, financial reporting that is not in compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, disparate company policies and practices, customer relationship issues, and retention of key personnel.
Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions, or cause us to change or limit our business practices.


item2.txt
In the three months ended July 1, 2018, decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; purchase accounting effects of acquisitions; and accelerated depreciation of $1.0 million, $0.4 million, and $0.3 million, respectively, further contributed to the increase in gross profit, partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in the amortization of software development intangible assets as compared to the year ago period.
For the six months ended July 1, 2018, decreases in accelerated depreciation of $0.5 million further contributed to the increase in gross profit, partially offset by increases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; amortization of software development intangible assets; and purchase accounting effects of acquisitions of $2.6 million, $0.7 million and $0.1 million, respectively, as compared to the year ago period.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $20.8 million and $33.1 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017.
Research and development expenses increased $2.1 million and $4.6 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017.
The decrease is due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized, partially offset by the acquisitions of SAM, Thinklogical, and NT2, which contributed a total $3.0 million and $8.4 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 as compared to the year ago period.
Operating income decreased $6.3 million and $13.7 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017 primarily due to the increases in selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development, partially offset by the increase in gross profit and decrease in amortization expense discussed above.
Net interest expense decreased $8.4 million, or 35.9%, and $15.0 million, or 31.8%, in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018, respectively, from the comparable period of 2017 as a result of our debt transactions during 2017 and 2018.
For the six months ended July 1, 2018, acquisitions, favorable currency translation, and higher copper prices contributed $70.5 million, $12.1 million, and $8.6 million, respectively, to the increase in revenues, partially offset by declines in volume of $3.6 million.
Enterprise Solutions EBITDA increased $13.9 million and $21.7 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017 as a result of the revenue growth discussed above, successful restructuring actions, 
For the three months ended July 1, 2018, volume growth, favorable currency translation, and higher copper prices contributed $6.6 million, $5.7 million, and $4.6 million, respectively, to the increase in revenues, partially offset by $7.0 million from the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017.
For the six months ended July 1, 2018, volume growth, favorable currency translation, and higher copper prices contributed $18.1 million, $15.6 million, and $8.6 million, respectively, to the increase in revenues, partially offset by $13.0 million from the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017.
Industrial Solutions EBITDA decreased $0.8 million and increased $1.8 million in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017, respectively.


part2.txt
In our opinion, the proceedings and actions in which we are involved should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, or cash flows.
Actions that may be taken by competitors, including pricing, business alliances, new product introductions, market penetration, and other actions, could have 
Uncertainty in U.S. and global financial and equity markets could make it more expensive for us to conduct our operations and more difficult for our customers to buy our products.
If we are unable to achieve our goals related to growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.
To achieve these goals, our strategic priorities are reliant on our Belden Business System, which includes continuing deployment of our MDS so as to capture market share through end-user engagement, channel management, outbound marketing, and careful vertical market selection; improving our recruitment and development of talented associates; developing strong global business platforms; acquiring businesses that fit our strategic plan; and becoming a leading Lean company.
Among the risks in emerging market countries are bureaucratic intrusions and delays, contract compliance failures, engrained business partners that do not comply with local or U.S. law, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, fluctuating currencies and interest rates, limitations on the amount and nature of investments, restrictions on permissible forms and structures of investment, unreliable legal and financial infrastructure, regime disruption and political unrest, uncontrolled inflation and commodity prices, fierce local competition by companies with better political connections, and corruption.
In addition, the costs of compliance with local laws and regulations in emerging markets may negatively impact our competitive position as compared to locally owned manufacturers.
We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and manufacture new products that meet or anticipate technological changes, which will require continued investment in engineering, research and development, capital equipment, marketing, customer service, and technical support.
Our ability to acquire businesses successfully will decline if we are unable to identify appropriate acquisition targets consistent with our strategic plan, the competition among potential buyers increases, the cost of acquiring suitable businesses becomes too expensive, or we lack sufficient sources of capital.
Some of the integration challenges we might face include differences in corporate culture and management styles, additional or conflicting governmental regulations, preparation of the acquired operations for adoption of ASC 606, compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, financial reporting that is not in compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, disparate company policies and practices, customer relationship issues, and retention of key personnel.
We may not be able to integrate operations successfully or cost-effectively, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations or our profitability.
If tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted.
A significant increase in our effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our earnings.
We rely on our information systems and those of third parties for storing proprietary company information about our products and intellectual property, as well as for processing customer orders, manufacturing and shipping products, billing our customers, tracking inventory, supporting accounting functions and financial statement preparation, paying our employees, and otherwise running our business.
If we are unable to successfully implement potential future information systems enhancements, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be negatively impacted.
As a result, the occurrence of a high profile security breach, or a failure by one of our customers to pass a regulatory compliance IT audit, could result in public and customer perception that our solutions are not effective and harm our business and operating results, even if the occurrence is unrelated to the use of such products or if the failure is the result of actions or inactions on the part of the customer.
A global economic downturn could cause financial difficulties (including bankruptcy) for our distributors and other customers, which would adversely affect our results of operations.
If we are unable to retain senior management and key employees, our business operations could be adversely affected.
We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, changes to which could increase our costs and individually or in the aggregate adversely affect our business.
Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions, or cause us to change or limit our business practices.


