item1.txt
The impact of the errors in the three months ended October 1, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $11.8 million and $2.6 million, respectively.
The impact of the errors in the nine months ended October 1, 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $28.3 million and $6.9 million, respectively.
We recorded the $62.1 million of cash received as a pre-tax gain from patent litigation during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
On September 27, 2018, Corning filed a petition for certiorari review by the U.S. Supreme Court of the District Court’s decision to exercise its discretion to award PPC $23.85 million in enhanced damages based on the totality of the evidence, including a number of factual findings regarding Corning’s willful infringement and egregious 
The adoption resulted in a $3.0 million and $46.9 million decrease to other current assets and other long-lived assets, respectively, as well as an $18.2 million increase in deferred income tax assets and a $31.7 million decrease to retained earnings on January 1, 2018.
Adoption resulted in a $0.3 million and $0.9 million increase to operating income for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017, respectively, but no changes to net income.
We recorded a net increase to retained earnings of $2.6 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, with the impact primarily related to sales commissions and software revenues within our Industrial Solutions segment.
As of January 1, 2018, total deferred revenue was $104.4 million, and $50.8 million and $149.4 million was recognized as revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
As of September 30, 2018, total deferred revenue was $90.8 million, and of this amount, $78.5 million will be recognized within the next twelve months, and the remaining $12.3 million is long-term and will be recognized over a period greater than twelve months.
Total sales commissions costs were $5.9 million and $18.4 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The preliminary measurement of receivables; inventories; property, plant and equipment; intangible assets; goodwill; deferred income taxes; deferred revenue; and other assets and liabilities are subject to change.
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our estimates of the preliminary fair values for the acquired inventory; property, plant, and equipment; intangible assets; and deferred revenue on preliminary valuation studies performed by a third party valuation firm.
To determine the value of the acquired property, plant, and equipment, we used various valuation methods, including both the market approach, which considers sales prices of similar assets in similar conditions (Level 2 valuation), and the cost approach, which considers the cost to replace the asset adjusted for depreciation (Level 3 valuation).
We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the preliminary fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and deferred revenue (Level 3 valuation).
Our consolidated revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 included an estimated $25.3 million and $77.2 million, respectively, from SAM.
Due to the integration of SAM into our existing business, we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount of income before taxes from SAM included in our consolidated financial statements.
Our consolidated income before taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2018 included $7.1 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $3.7 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $0.6 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value from SAM.
Our consolidated income before taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included $36.6 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $8.7 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $1.8 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value from SAM.
For purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the three months ended October 1, 2017 includes nonrecurring expenses related to the acquisition, including severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; amortization of the sales backlog intangible asset; and cost of sales arising from the adjustment of inventory to fair value of $7.1 million, $0.2 million, and $0.2 million, respectively.
For purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the nine months ended October 1, 2017 includes nonrecurring expenses related to the acquisition, including severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; amortization of the sales backlog intangible asset; and cost of sales arising from the adjustment of inventory to fair value of $36.6 million, $2.0 million, and $1.7 million, respectively.
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our estimate of the fair value for the acquired inventory, intangible assets, and deferred revenue on a valuation study performed by a third party valuation firm.
We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the preliminary fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and deferred revenue (Level 3 valuation).
Our consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2018 included $15.2 million and $2.6 million, respectively, from Thinklogical.
Our consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included $32.6 million and $(0.5) million, respectively, from Thinklogical.
Thinklogical's loss before taxes included $9.5 million of amortization of intangible assets and $0.5 million of severance and other restructuring costs.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we also sold a previously closed operating facility for net proceeds of $1.5 million and recognized a $0.6 million gain on the sale.
Segment Revenues represent non-affiliate revenues and include revenues that would have otherwise been recorded by acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income due to the effects of purchase accounting and the associated write-down of acquired deferred revenue to fair value.
Segment EBITDA excludes certain items, including depreciation expense; amortization of intangibles; asset impairment; severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; purchase accounting effects related to acquisitions, such as the adjustment of acquired inventory and deferred revenue to fair value; and other costs.
In addition, for both the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.2 million because the related performance conditions have not been satisfied.
Furthermore, for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include the impact of preferred shares that are convertible into 6.8 million and 6.9 million common shares, respectively, because deducting the preferred stock dividends from net income was more dilutive.
We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $26.2 million and $76.3 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $27.2 million and $77.9 million in the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017, respectively.
We recognized $7.1 million and $36.6 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
We recognized $4.3 million and $15.8 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
We recognized $11.4 million and $25.3 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017, respectively.
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the three months ended September 30, 2018, $4.8 million, $6.4 million, and $0.5 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively.
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the three months ended October 1, 2017, $12.4 million, $4.2 million, and $0.1 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively.
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, $21.4 million, $30.3 million, and $5.3 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively.
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the nine months ended October 1, 2017, $26.5 million, $6.2 million, and $0.1 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively.
In March 2018, we repurchased $188.7 million of the $200.0 million 2024 Notes outstanding for cash consideration of $199.8 million, including a prepayment penalty and recognized a $13.8 million loss on debt extinguishment including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
In April 2018, we repurchased the remaining 2024 Notes outstanding for cash consideration of $11.9 million, including a prepayment penalty, and recognized a $0.8 million loss on debt extinguishment including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
In March 2018, we repurchased €143.1 million of the €200.0 million 2023 Notes outstanding for cash consideration of €147.8 million ($182.1 million), including a prepayment penalty and recognized a $6.2 million loss on debt extinguishment including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
In April 2018, we repurchased the remaining 2023 Notes outstanding for cash consideration of €58.5 million ($71.6 million), including a prepayment penalty, and recognized a $2.2 million loss on debt extinguishment including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
The fair value of our senior subordinated notes as of September 30, 2018 was approximately $1,526.9 million based on quoted prices of the debt instruments in inactive markets (Level 2 valuation).
The amount of the cumulative translation adjustment associated with these notes for the nine month periods ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 was a gain of $46.3 million and a loss of $25.3 million, respectively.
•We recognized an income tax benefit of $1.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions of prior years.
On December 22, 2017, SAB 118 was issued to address the application of US GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act. The issuance of proposed regulations regarding GILTI and the one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings as well as the IRS notice addressing IRC section 162(m) has resulted in refinements to the provisional amounts initially recorded for the valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credits in 2017, certain covered employee compensation associated with the amendments to IRC section 162(m), the one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings and the estimated tax expense associated with the GILTI taxable inclusion.
Additional work is still necessary for a more detailed analysis of all provisional amounts associated with the Act including the remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities, the one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings, the valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credits, and the non-deductibility of certain covered employee compensation associated with the amendments to IRC section 162(m).
All other items impacting the effective tax rate represented a net expense of $2.6 million and $2.3 million in the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017, respectively.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 0.3 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $25.0 million and an average price per share of $72.62.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 1.8 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $125.0 million and an average price per share of $70.13.
We recorded the $62.1 million of cash received as a pre-tax gain from patent litigation during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
On September 27, 2018, Corning filed a petition for certiorari review by the U.S. Supreme Court of the District Court’s decision to exercise its discretion to award PPC $23.85 million in enhanced damages based on the totality of the evidence, including a number of factual findings regarding Corning’s willful infringement and egregious conduct.
Some of the integration challenges we might face include differences in corporate culture and management styles, additional or conflicting governmental regulations, preparation of the acquired operations for adoption of ASC 606, compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, financial reporting that is not in compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, disparate company policies and practices, customer relationship issues, and retention of key personnel.


item2.txt
•The divestiture of our MCS business resulted in a $7.8 million and $20.8 million decrease in revenues in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
In the three months ended September 30, 2018, decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; purchase accounting effects of acquisitions; and accelerated depreciation of $7.6 million, $2.3 million, and $0.3 million, respectively, further contributed to the increase in gross profit, partially offset by a $0.6 million increase in the amortization of software development intangible assets as compared to the year ago period.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; purchase accounting effects of acquisitions; and accelerated depreciation of $5.0 million, $2.3 million, and $0.8 million, respectively, further contributed to the increase in gross profit, partially offset by a $1.3 million increase in the amortization of software development intangible assets as compared to the year ago period.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $16.6 million and $49.6 million, respectively, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, acquisitions; costs related to patent litigation; and increases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; contributed an estimated $5.9 million, $2.6 million, and $2.1 million, respectively, to the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, partially offset by the impact of capacity constraints, currency translation, and the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017, which contributed to a decline of approximately $3.2 million, $0.9 million and $0.8 million, respectively, over the year ago period.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, increases in acquisitions; severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; currency translation; and costs related to patent litigation contributed an estimated $29.2 million, $23.9 million, $5.0 million, and $2.6 million, respectively, to the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, partially offset by improved productivity and the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017, which contributed to a decline of approximately $16.2 million and $2.9 million, respectively, over the year ago period.
The decrease is due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized, partially offset by the impact of acquisitions, which contributed to a total increase of $2.6 million and $10.8 million, respectively, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the year ago period.
Operating income increased $70.2 million and $56.5 million, respectively, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017 primarily due to the gain from patent litigation and increases in gross profit discussed above, partially offset by the changes in operating expenses discussed above.
Net interest expense decreased $4.9 million, or 25.3%, and $19.9 million, or 29.9%, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, from the comparable periods of 2017 as a result of our debt transactions during 2017 and 2018.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, acquisitions contributed an estimated $30.4 million and volume growth and pricing increases contributed $4.2 million to the increase in revenues, partially offset by a $2.8 million and $0.5 million unfavorable impact from currency translation and copper prices, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, acquisitions, favorable currency translation, higher copper prices, and volume growth contributed an estimated $100.9 million, $9.3 million, $8.1 million, and $0.6 million, respectively, to the increase in revenues.
Enterprise Solutions EBITDA increased $10.1 million and $31.9 million, respectively, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017 as a result of the revenue growth discussed above and successful restructuring actions.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, volume growth and pricing increases contributed $16.0 million and higher copper prices contributed $0.3 million to the increase in revenues, partially offset by $7.8 million from the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017 and unfavorable currency translation of $2.5 million.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, volume growth, favorable currency translation, and higher copper prices contributed $34.1 million, $13.1 million, and $8.9 million, respectively, to the increase in revenues, partially offset by $20.8 million from the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017.
Industrial Solutions EBITDA decreased $2.0 million and $0.3 million, respectively, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017.


part2.txt
In our opinion, the proceedings and actions in which we are involved should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, or cash flows.
Actions that may be taken by competitors, including pricing, business alliances, new product introductions, market penetration, and other actions, could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability.
Uncertainty in U.S. and global financial and equity markets could make it more expensive for us to conduct our operations and more difficult for our customers to buy our products.
If we are unable to achieve our goals related to growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.
To achieve these goals, our strategic priorities are reliant on our Belden Business System, which includes continuing deployment of our MDS so as to capture market share through end-user engagement, channel management, outbound marketing, and careful vertical market selection; improving our recruitment and development of talented associates; developing strong global business platforms; acquiring businesses that fit our strategic plan; and becoming a leading Lean company.
Among the risks in emerging market countries are bureaucratic intrusions and delays, contract compliance failures, engrained business partners that do not comply with local or U.S. law, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, fluctuating currencies and interest rates, limitations on the amount and nature of investments, restrictions on permissible forms and structures of investment, unreliable legal and financial infrastructure, regime disruption and political unrest, uncontrolled inflation and commodity prices, fierce local competition by companies with better political connections, and corruption.
We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and manufacture new products that meet or anticipate technological changes, which will require continued investment in engineering, research and development, capital equipment, marketing, customer service, and technical support.
Our ability to acquire businesses successfully will decline if we are unable to identify appropriate acquisition targets consistent with our strategic plan, the competition among potential buyers increases, the cost of acquiring suitable businesses becomes too expensive, or we lack sufficient sources of capital.
Some of the integration challenges we might face include differences in corporate culture and management styles, additional or conflicting governmental regulations, preparation of the acquired operations for adoption of ASC 606, compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, financial reporting that is not in compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, disparate company policies and practices, customer relationship issues, and retention of key personnel.
We may not be able to integrate operations successfully or cost-effectively, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations or our profitability.
If tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted.
A significant increase in our effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our earnings.
We rely on our information systems and those of third parties for storing proprietary company information about our products and intellectual property, as well as for processing customer orders, manufacturing and shipping products, billing our customers, tracking inventory, supporting accounting functions and financial statement preparation, paying our employees, and otherwise running our business.
As a result, the occurrence of a high profile security breach, or a failure by one of our customers to pass a regulatory compliance IT audit, could result in public and customer perception that our solutions are not effective and harm our business and operating results, even if the occurrence is unrelated to the use of such products or if the failure is the result of actions or inactions on the part of the customer.
The timing of orders for customer projects can also have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the products are shipped and recognized as revenue.
In addition, our revenue can be difficult to forecast due to unexpected changes in the level of our products held as inventory by our channel partners and customers.
As our channel partners and customers change the level of Belden products owned and held in their inventory, our revenue is impacted.
As we are dependent upon our channel partners and customers to provide us with information regarding the amount of our products that they own and hold in their inventory, unexpected changes can occur and impact our revenue forecast.
Changes in the inventory levels of our products owned and held by our distributors can result in significant variability in our revenues.
A global economic downturn could cause financial difficulties (including bankruptcy) for our distributors and other customers, which would adversely affect our results of operations.
We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, changes to which could increase our costs and individually or in the aggregate adversely affect our business.
Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions, or cause us to change or limit our business practices.


