Item 1. Financial Statements
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
1.Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Description of Business
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada. The Company's offerings range from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.
Throughout this report, the terms the "Company" and "CDW" refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
Basis of Presentation
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the requirements of Topic 606 utilizing the full retrospective method as discussed in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements). Prior period amounts have been adjusted accordingly.
Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.
Revenue Recognition
The Company is a primary distribution channel for a large group of vendors and suppliers, including original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and wholesale distributors. 
Revenue Recognition for Hardware
Revenue Recognition for Software
Revenues from most software license sales are recognized as a single performance obligation on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions at the point the software license is delivered to the customer. Generally, software licenses are sold with accompanying third-party delivered software assurance, which is a product that allows customers to upgrade, at no additional cost, to the latest technology if new capabilities are introduced during the period that the software assurance is in effect. The Company evaluates whether the software assurance is a separate performance obligation by assessing if the third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software itself. This involves considering if the software provides its original intended functionality to the customer without the updates, if the customer would ascribe a higher value to the upgrades versus the up-front deliverable, if the customer would expect frequent intelligence updates to the software (such as updates that maintain the original functionality), and if the customer chooses to not delay or always install upgrades. If the Company determines that the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software license, the software license and the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance are recognized as a single performance obligation. The value of the product is primarily the accompanying support delivered by a third-party and therefore the Company is acting as an agent in these transactions and recognizes them on a net basis at the point the associated software license is delivered to the customer. For software licenses where the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is not critical or essential to the core functionality, the software assurance is recognized as a separate performance obligation, with the associated revenue recognized on a net basis at the point the related software license is delivered to the customer. For additional details regarding the accounting for bundled arrangements, see "Revenue Recognition for Bundled Arrangements" below.
Revenue Recognition for Services
The Company sells cloud computing solutions, which include Software as a Service ("SaaS") and Infrastructure as a Service ("IaaS"). SaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to offer the Company's customers access to software in the cloud that enhances office productivity, provides security or assists in collaboration. IaaS solutions utilize third-party partners to enable customers to access data center functionality in a cloud-based solution, including storage, computing and networking. The Company recognizes revenue for cloud computing solutions for arrangements with one-time invoicing to the customer at the time of invoice on a net basis as the Company is acting as an agent in the transaction. For monthly subscription-based arrangements, the Company is acting as an agent in the transaction and recognizes revenue as it invoices the customer for its monthly usage on a net basis.
Revenues from the sale of data center services, such as managed and remote managed services, server co-location, internet connectivity and data backup and storage provided by the Company, are recognized over the period the service is provided. Most hosting and managed service obligations are based on the quantity and pricing parameters established in the agreement. As the customer receives the benefit of the service each month, the Company recognizes the respective revenue on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in the transaction. Additionally, the Company's managed services team provides project support to customers that are billed on a fixed fee basis. The Company is acting as the principal in the transaction and recognizes revenue on a gross basis based on the total number of hours incurred for the period over the total expected hours for the project. Total expected hours to complete the project is updated for each period and best represents the transfer of control of the service to the customer. 
The Company's customers are offered the opportunity by certain of its vendors to purchase software licenses and software assurance under enterprise agreements ("EAs"), referred to as services in this paragraph. For most EA transactions, the Company's obligation to the customer is that of a distributor or sales agent of the services, where all obligations for providing the services to customers are passed to the Company's vendors. The Company's performance obligations are satisfied at the time of the sale. In other EA transactions, the Company is responsible for fulfilling the promised services to the customer and providing remedy or refund for work if the customer is not satisfied with the delivered services, has inventory risk in the arrangement and has full control to set the price for the customer. This results in the Company acting as a principal in the agreement. With most EAs, the Company's vendors will transfer the license and invoice the customer 
Revenue Recognition for Bundled Arrangements
Sales In-Transit
Freight Costs
Other
When a contract results in revenue being recognized in excess of the amount the Company has the right to invoice to the customer, a contract asset is recorded on the balance sheet. Contract assets are comprised primarily of professional services with fixed fee arrangements.
Contract liabilities consist of payments received from customers, or such consideration that is contractually due, in advance of providing the product or performing services. Contract liabilities are comprised primarily of professional services with fixed fee arrangements, bill-and-hold transactions where control has not passed to the customer and certain governmental contracts.
The Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts. The Company has elected to use the practical expedient for its performance obligations table to show only those contracts that are longer than 12 months at the time of contract inception and those contracts that are non-cancelable. Additionally, for certain governmental contracts where there are 
annual renewals, the Company has excluded these contracts since there is only a one-year legal obligation. Typically, the only contracts that are longer than 12 months in duration are related to the Company's professional and managed services business.
The Company requests payments for its products and services at the point of sale. The Company generally does not enter into any long-term financing arrangements or payment plans with customers or contracts with customers that have non-cash consideration.
2. Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), requiring lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. This ASU is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of 2019 and allows for early adoption. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. 
The Company has established a cross-functional implementation team to analyze the effect of the ASU. The Company is utilizing a combination of a bottom-up and top-down approach to identify and analyze its lease portfolio. The Company is in the process of evaluating its identified leases. In addition, the Company is evaluating business processes and internal controls to meet the ASU’s accounting, reporting and disclosure requirements. Although the Company is currently evaluating the provisions of the ASU to determine how it will be affected, the primary impact to the Company of the new ASU will be to record assets and liabilities for current operating leases, which are principally related to the Company's real estate portfolio.
Revenue Recognition
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 and utilized the full retrospective method. For additional details, see Note 1 (Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies). 
3. Inventory Financing Agreements
The Company has entered into agreements with certain financial intermediaries to facilitate the purchase of inventory from various suppliers under certain terms and conditions, as described below. These amounts are classified separately as Accounts payable-inventory financing on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company does not incur any interest expense associated with these agreements as balances are paid when they are due. 
4. Contract Liabilities and Remaining Performance Obligations
The Company's contract liabilities consist of payments received from customers, or such consideration that is contractually due, in advance of providing the product or performing services. The Company's contract liabilities are reported in a net position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the contract liability balance was $170 million and $159 million, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized revenue of $116 million and $99 million, respectively, related to its contract liabilities.
A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. For more information regarding the Company's performance obligations, see Note 1 (Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies). The following table represents the total transaction price for the remaining performance obligations as of June 30, 2018 related to non-cancelable contracts longer than 12 months in duration that is expected to be recognized over future periods.
The Company's indebtedness creates interest rate risk on its variable-rate debt. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risk. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
The fair value of the Company's interest rate cap agreements is classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The valuation of the interest rate cap agreements is derived by using a discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash receipts that would occur if variable interest rates rise above the strike rates of the caps. This analysis reflects the contractual terms of the interest rate cap agreements, including the period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs, including LIBOR curves and implied volatilities. The Company also incorporates insignificant credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. 
The counterparty credit spreads are based on publicly available credit information obtained from a third-party credit data provider. For additional details, see Note 6 (Long-Term Debt).
The interest rate cap agreements are designated as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and is subsequently reclassified into Interest expense in the period when the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. If a derivative is deemed to be ineffective, the ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative is recognized directly into earnings. The Company's interest rate cap agreements were deemed effective during both the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and the Company expects the derivatives will continue to be effective for the next twelve months. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $2 million and $5 million, respectively, net of a tax expense for the effective portion of the interest rate cap agreements into Accumulated other comprehensive loss. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company recorded a loss of $1 million and $2 million respectively, net of a tax benefit, for the effective portion of the interest rate cap agreements into Accumulated other comprehensive loss. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company reclassified $1 million and $2 million, respectively, from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings within Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The Company expects to reclassify $5 million from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into Interest expense, net during the next twelve months. 
Prior to the election of hedge accounting treatment during the first quarter of 2017, the Company recognized less than $1 million of Interest income during the six months ended June 30, 2017 in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations related to the changes in the fair value of the interest rate cap agreements.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Loan, less than $1 million of undrawn letters of credit, $357 million reserved for the floorplan sub-facility and a borrowing base of $1.8 billion, which is based on the amount of eligible inventory and accounts receivable balances as of May 31, 2018. Borrowings under the Revolving Loan are limited by the borrowing base. As of June 30, 2018, the Company could have borrowed up to an additional $1.1 billion under the Revolving Loan. Borrowings are also limited by a minimum liquidity condition, which provides that, if excess cash availability is less than the lower of (i) $125 million and (ii) the greater of (a) 10.0% of the borrowing base, and (b) $100 million, the lenders are not required to lend additional amounts under the Revolving Loan unless the consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined, is at least 1.00 to 1.00.
Borrowings under the Revolving Loan bear interest at a variable interest rate plus an applicable margin. The interest rate margin is based on one of two indices, either (i) LIBOR or (ii) the Alternate Base Rate ("ABR"), with the ABR being the greater of (a) the prime rate, (b) the federal funds effective rate plus 50 basis points or (c) the one-month LIBOR plus 1.00%. The applicable margin varies (1.25% to 1.75% for LIBOR borrowings and 0.25% to 0.75% for ABR borrowings) depending upon average daily excess cash availability under the agreement evidencing the Revolving Loan.
During the six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company amended, extended and increased its prior revolving loan ("Prior Revolving Loan") and recorded a loss on extinguishment of long-term debt of $1 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations, representing a write-off of a portion of unamortized deferred financing fees. Fees of $4 million related to the Prior Revolving Loan were capitalized as deferred financing fees and are being amortized over the five-year term of the facility on a straight-line basis. These deferred financing fees are recorded in the Other assets line on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of June 30, 2018, the outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan was $1.5 billion, excluding $3 million of deferred financing fees. Borrowings under the Term Loan are payable quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December. The Company is required to pay quarterly principal installments of $4 million with the remaining principal amount payable on the maturity date of August 17, 2023.
During the six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company amended its prior $1.5 billion senior secured term loan facility ("Prior Term Loan Facility") and recorded a loss on extinguishment of long-term debt of $14 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. This loss represented the write-off of a portion of the unamortized deferred financing fees of $5 million and unamortized discount related to the Prior Term Loan Facility of $9 million. In connection with the issuance of the Term Loan, the Company incurred and recorded $2 million in deferred financing fees. 
As of June 30, 2018, the outstanding principal amount of the CDW UK Term Loan facility ("CDW UK Term Loan") was £56 million ($74 million at June 30, 2018), excluding £1 million ($1 million at June 30, 2018) of deferred financing fees.
Commencing during the quarter ending September 30, 2018, the Company is required to make annual principal installments of £5 million ($7 million at June 30, 2018), with the remaining principal amount payable on the maturity date of August 1, 2021. Borrowings under the CDW UK Term Loan bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin, payable quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December. As of June 30, 2018, an interest rate of 1.94% was in effect, which represents LIBOR plus a 1.40% margin.
The CDW UK Term Loan also includes a separate £50 million ($66 million at June 30, 2018) revolving credit facility (the "CDW UK Revolving Credit Facility"). As of June 30, 2018, the Company had £10 million ($13 million at June 30, 2018) of outstanding borrowings under the CDW UK Revolving Credit Facility.
5.5% Senior Notes due 2024 ("2024 Senior Notes")
As of June 30, 2018, the outstanding principal amount of the 2024 Senior Notes was $575 million. The 2024 Senior Notes will mature on December 1, 2024 and bear interest at a rate of 5.5% per annum, payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year.
During the six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company completed the issuance of the 2025 Senior Notes at par. The proceeds from the issuance of the 2025 Senior Notes along with cash on hand and proceeds from Revolving Loan borrowings were deposited to redeem all of the then remaining $600 million aggregate principal amount of the 2022 Senior Notes ("2022 Senior Notes"). In connection with this redemption, the Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of long-term debt of $43 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the six months ended June 30, 2017. This loss represents $37 million in redemption premium and $6 million for the write-off of the remaining deferred financing fees related to the 2022 Senior Notes.
CDW LLC is the borrower under the Term Loan and Revolving Loan. CDW LLC and CDW Finance Corporation are the co-issuers of the 2023, 2024 and 2025 Senior Notes ("Senior Notes"). The obligations under the Term Loan, the Revolving Loan and the Senior Notes are guaranteed by Parent and each of CDW LLC's direct and indirect, wholly owned, US subsidiaries (the "Guarantors").
The Revolving Loan is collateralized by a first priority interest in inventory (excluding inventory collateralized under the inventory floorplan arrangements as described in Note 3 (Inventory Financing Agreements)), deposits and accounts receivable and by a second priority interest in substantially all US assets.
The Term Loan is collateralized by a second priority interest in substantially all inventory (excluding inventory collateralized under the inventory floorplan arrangements as described in Note 3 (Inventory Financing Agreements)), deposits and accounts receivable and by a first priority interest in substantially all other US assets.
Each of the Senior Notes indentures contain negative covenants that, among other things, place restrictions and limitations on the ability of the Guarantors to enter into sale and lease-back transactions, incur additional secured indebtedness and create liens. The indenture governing each of the Senior Notes do not contain any financial covenants.
The CDW UK Term Loan imposes restrictions on CDW UK's ability to transfer funds to the Company through the payment of dividends, repayment of intercompany loans, advances or subordinated debt that require, among other things, the maintenance of a minimum net leverage ratio. As of June 30, 2018, the amount of restricted payment capacity under the CDW UK Term Loan was £101 million ($133 million at June 30, 2018).
On February 14, 2018, the Company retired 109,207 shares of its treasury stock. On December 31, 2017 the shares were acquired in satisfaction of withholding taxes which were paid by the Company on behalf of coworkers under the Performance Share Awards program. 
The numerator for both basic and diluted earnings per share is Net income. The denominator for basic earnings per share is the weighted-average shares outstanding during the period. 
11. Commitments and Contingencies
Geographic Areas and Revenue Mix
The following table presents Net sales by major category for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. Categories are based upon internal classifications. 
13. Supplemental Guarantor Information
The 2023 Senior Notes, the 2024 Senior Notes and the 2025 Senior Notes are guaranteed by the Parent and each of CDW LLC’s direct and indirect, 100% owned, domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantor Subsidiaries"). All guarantees by the Parent and the Guarantor Subsidiaries are and were joint and several, and full and unconditional; provided that guarantees by the Guarantor Subsidiaries are subject to certain customary release provisions contained in the indentures governing the 2023 Senior Notes, the 2024 Senior Notes and the 2025 Senior Notes. CDW LLC's 100% owned foreign subsidiaries, CDW International Holdings Limited, which is comprised of CDW UK and CDW Canada (together the "Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries"), do not guarantee the debt obligations. CDW LLC and CDW Finance Corporation, as co-issuers, are 100% owned by Parent and each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries are, directly or indirectly, 100% owned by CDW LLC.
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
See "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 
