Item 1. Financial Statements
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada. The Company's offerings range from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.
Throughout this report, the terms the "Company" and "CDW" refer to Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.
The Company enters into operating lease contracts, as assessed at contract inception, primarily for real estate, data centers and equipment. On the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets, Operating lease assets are included in Operating lease right-of-use assets and Operating lease liabilities are included in Other current liabilities and Long-term operating lease liabilities. At the lease commencement date, the Company records Operating lease liabilities based on the present value of the future lease payments. In determining the present value of future lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date. For real estate and data center contracts, the Company accounts for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. For certain equipment leases, the Company applies a portfolio approach to account for the right-of-use asset and operating lease liability. In assessing the lease term, the Company includes options to renew only when it is reasonably certain that it will be exercised; a determination which is at the sole discretion of the Company. Generally, for leases with an initial term of 12 months or less, the Company has elected to not record a right-of-use asset and lease liability. For equipment leases used in revenue generating activities, the Company will record a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with a term of 12 months or less. The Company records lease expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term beginning on the commencement date.
On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted and applied Topic 842. The adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of right-of-use assets and additional lease liabilities of $81 million as of January 1, 2019, mainly related to operating leases for the Company's real estate portfolio. For additional details regarding the impact to the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets from adopting this standard, see Note 9 (Leases).
On February 1, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of all issued and outstanding shares of Scalar Decisions Inc. ("Scalar"), a leading technology solutions provider in Canada, for a total final purchase price of $88 million of which $13 million is deferred to satisfy potential indemnity obligations and is expected to be paid in the first quarter of 2021. The financial results of Scalar have been included in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. The financial results are included in the Canada operating segment which is shown in an all other category ("Other") along with CDW UK. The purchase price allocation is preliminary and subject to revision as additional information about fair value of assets and liabilities becomes available.
The Company has entered into agreements with certain financial intermediaries to facilitate the purchase of inventory from various suppliers under certain terms and conditions, as described below. These amounts are classified separately as Accounts payable-inventory financing on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company does not incur any interest expense associated with these agreements as balances are paid when they are due.
The Senior Secured Asset-Based Revolving Credit Facility includes an inventory floorplan sub-facility that enables the Company to maintain an inventory financing agreement with a financial intermediary to facilitate the purchase of inventory from certain vendors on more favorable terms than offered directly by the vendors.
The Company's contract liabilities consist of payments received from customers, or such consideration that is contractually due, in advance of providing the product or performing services. The Company's contract liabilities are reported in a net position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the contract liability balance was $201 million and $178 million, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $113 million and $116 million, respectively, related to its contract liabilities.
The Company's indebtedness creates interest rate risk on its variable-rate debt. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risk. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
The fair values of the Company's interest rate cap agreements are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The valuation of the interest rate cap agreements is derived by using a discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash receipts that would occur if variable interest rates rise above the strike rates of the caps. This analysis reflects the contractual terms of the interest rate cap agreements, including the period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs, including LIBOR curves and implied volatilities. The Company also incorporates insignificant credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. The counterparty credit spreads are based on publicly available credit information obtained from a third-party credit data provider. For additional details, see Note 7 (Long-Term Debt).
The interest rate cap agreements are designated as cash flow hedges. The changes in the fair value of derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and are subsequently reclassified into Interest expense in the period when the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The Company recorded a loss of $4 million and $12 million, net of tax, into Accumulated other comprehensive loss for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. The Company recorded a gain of $2 million and $5 million, net of tax, into Accumulated other comprehensive loss for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company reclassified an insignificant amount and $2 million, respectively, from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings within Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company reclassified $1 million and $2 million, respectively, from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings within Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The Company expects to reclassify $6 million from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into Interest expense, net during the next 12 months.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company is in compliance with the covenants under the various credit agreements and indentures.
The Company has a variable rate CDW UK revolving credit facility that is denominated in British pounds. As of June 30, 2019, the Company could have borrowed up to an additional £50 million ($63 million at June 30, 2019) under the CDW UK revolving credit facility.
The Company also has a variable rate senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Loan") that is denominated in US dollars. The Revolving Loan is used by the Company for borrowings, issuances of letters of credit and floorplan financing. As of June 30, 2019, the Revolving Loan had less than $1 million of undrawn letters of credit, $401 million reserved for the floorplan sub-facility and a borrowing base of $2.0 billion, which is based on the amount of eligible inventory and accounts receivable balances as of May 31, 2019. As of June 30, 2019, the Company could have borrowed up to an additional $973 million under the Revolving Loan.
The Revolving Loan is collateralized by a first priority interest in inventory (excluding inventory to the extent collateralized under the inventory financing arrangements as described in Note 4 (Inventory Financing Agreements)), deposits and accounts receivable, and by a second priority interest in substantially all other US assets.
The CDW UK term loan has a variable interest rate. The Company is required to make annual principal installments of £5 million ($6 million at June 30, 2019), with the remaining principal amount due at the maturity date.
The CDW UK term loan agreement imposes restrictions on CDW UK's ability to transfer funds to the Company through the payment of dividends, repayment of intercompany loans, advances or subordinated debt that require, among other things, the maintenance of a minimum net leverage ratio. As of June 30, 2019, the amount of restricted payment capacity under the CDW UK term loan was £138 million ($176 million at June 30, 2019).
The Term Loan is collateralized by a second priority interest in substantially all inventory (excluding inventory to the extent collateralized under the inventory financing arrangements as described in Note 4 (Inventory Financing Agreements), deposits and accounts receivable, and by a first priority interest in substantially all other US assets.
The fair values of the Senior Notes were estimated using quoted market prices for identical liabilities that are traded in over-the-counter secondary markets that are not considered active. The fair value of the Term Loan was estimated using dealer quotes for identical liabilities in markets that are not considered active. The Senior Notes, Term Loan and CDW UK term loan are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. The carrying value of the Revolving Loan and CDW UK revolving credit facility approximate fair value if there are outstanding borrowings. 
The Company has operating leases primarily for real estate, data centers and equipment. Lease terms range from 1 year to 16 years.
The numerator for both basic and diluted earnings per share is Net income. The denominator for basic earnings per share is the weighted-average shares outstanding during the period.
During the first quarter of 2019, the Company evaluated its methodology for allocating certain depreciation and amortization expenses to each of its segments. The evaluation resulted in a revision to the allocation of depreciation and amortization expenses from Headquarters to the Company’s reportable segments, effective January 1, 2019. The prior period results have been recast to reflect these changes and present comparable information.
The following table presents Net sales by major category for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. Categories are based upon internal classifications.
Includes items such as delivery charges to customers.
The Senior Notes are guaranteed by Parent and each of CDW LLC's direct and indirect, 100% owned, domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantor Subsidiaries"). All guarantees by Parent and the Guarantor Subsidiaries are and were joint and several, and full and unconditional; provided that guarantees by the Guarantor Subsidiaries are subject to certain customary release provisions contained in the indentures governing the Senior Notes. CDW LLC's 100% owned foreign subsidiaries, CDW International Holdings Limited, which is comprised of CDW UK and CDW Canada (together the "Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries"), do not guarantee the Senior Notes. CDW LLC and CDW Finance Corporation, as co-issuers, are 100% owned by Parent and each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries are, directly or indirectly, 100% owned by CDW LLC.
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
Item 1A. Risk Factors
See "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
