fls.txt



item1.txt
We provide security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals.
Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of revenue recognition, valuation of goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets, income taxes, valuation of stock-based awards and recognition of stock-based compensation expense, and loss contingencies.
The standard’s core principle is that a company recognizes revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
In addition, companies are required to capitalize certain contract acquisition costs, including commissions paid, when contracts are signed.
The new guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure.
We adopted this new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Substantially all of our equity investments that were not accounted for under the equity method were previously accounted for under the cost method and are now accounted for using the measurement alternative defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted for observable price changes.
Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
We recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for the goods or services.
Revenue for our Enterprise Security products is earned from arrangements that can include various combinations of software licenses, cloud services, hardware, support and maintenance, and professional services, which are sold directly to end-users or through a multi-tiered distribution channel.
We generally do not offer rights of return for Enterprise Security products and the distribution channel does not hold inventory.
As a result, historical returns and related reserves have been insignificant.


item2.txt
The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
We are a global leader in cyber security and provide cyber security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals worldwide.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of outstanding securities in the future.
Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly.
Our customers’ renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline.
Accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers.
Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee has recently completed its internal investigation.
In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the SEC in May 2018.


