fls.txt



item1.txt
Derived from audited financial statements.
We provide cyber security products, services, and solutions.
Our Integrated Cyber Defense Platform helps business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity.
Our Cyber Safety solutions under our Norton LifeLock brand help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identities, and home networks.
The results of operations for the three months ended July 5, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of stand-alone selling price for performance obligations, valuation of business combinations including acquired intangible assets and goodwill, loss contingencies, valuation of stock-based compensation, and the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions.
Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We currently do not have any finance leases.
The standard did not have an impact on our consolidated statements of operations or statements of cash flows.
For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We are currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended July 5, 2019 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at March 29, 2019 was $920 million.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended June 29, 2018 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at March 31, 2018 was $848 million.
During the three months ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, we recognized amortization expense of capitalized contract acquisition costs of $28 million and $23 million, respectively.
We lease certain of our facilities, equipment, and data center co-locations under operating leases that expire on various dates through fiscal 2029.


item2.txt
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
•Consumer Cyber Safety.
See Note 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the planned divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.
There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the three months ended July 5, 2019.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The list is not exhaustive, and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
Third parties may be unwilling to enter into material agreements with respect to the Enterprise Security business or the Cyber Safety Security business.
New or existing customers, suppliers and business partners may prefer to enter into agreements with our competitors who have not expressed an intention to sell their business because customers, suppliers and business partners may perceive that such new relationships are likely to be more stable.
The completion of the Sale is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of various conditions, which may not be satisfied in a timely manner or at all.
If the Sale is not completed, we may have difficulty recouping the costs incurred in connection with negotiating the Sale.
An alternative sale transaction, if available, may yield lower consideration than the proposed Sale, be on less favorable terms and conditions than those contained in the agreement and involve significant delay.
In addition, if the Sale is completed, our future financial results will be dependent solely on our Cyber Safety Security business.
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
•Changes in tax laws, rules, and regulations.


