fls.txt



item1.txt
The divestiture of our Enterprise Security business allows us to shift our operational focus to our consumer business and represents a strategic shift in our operations.
Starting in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we operate in one reportable segment.
Results of discontinued operations include all revenues and expenses directly derived from the Enterprise Security business, with the exception of revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, and general corporate overhead which were previously allocated to the Enterprise Security segment but are not allocated to discontinued operations.
These revenues and expenses are now included in continuing operations.
See Notes 3 and 18 for additional information about the divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of stand-alone selling price for performance obligations, valuation of business combinations including acquired intangible assets and goodwill, loss contingencies, valuation of stock-based compensation, and the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions.
Most prominent among the changes in the standard is the recognition of right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases.
We currently do not have any finance leases.
We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities.
Credit Losses.
For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021.
On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement with Broadcom under which Broadcom agreed to purchase certain of our Enterprise Security assets and assume certain liabilities for a purchase price of $10.7 billion.
Our discontinued operations consist of our divested Enterprise Security assets and also includes results of our previously divested Veritas information management business (Veritas).
We lease certain of our facilities, equipment, and data center co-locations under operating leases that expire on various dates through fiscal 2029.
Our leases generally have terms that range from 1 year to 17 years for our facilities, 1 year to 6 years for equipment, and 1 year to 6 years for data center co-locations.


item2.txt
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
NortonLifeLock Inc. is a global leader in consumer cyber safety.
On November 4, 2019, we completed the transaction.
Starting in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we operate in one reportable segment.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
We are dependent upon Broadcom for certain engineering services, which are critical to our products and business.
Our endpoint security solution has historically relied upon certain threat analytics software engines and other software (the Engine-Related Services) that have been developed and provided by engineering teams that have transferred to Broadcom as part of the Broadcom sale.
The technology, including source code, at issue is shared, and pursuant to the terms of the Broadcom sale, we retain rights to use, modify, enhance and create derivative works from such technology.
We may not achieve the intended benefits of the Broadcom sale.
We may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the Broadcom sale.
The resource constraints as a result of our focus on completing the transaction, which included the loss of employees, could have a continuing impact on the execution of our business strategy and our overall operating results.
Further, our remaining employees may become concerned about the future of our remaining operations and lose focus or seek other employment.
Any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business.


