fls.txt



item1.txt
We provide security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals.
Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of revenue recognition, valuation of goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets, income taxes, valuation of stock-based awards and recognition of stock-based compensation expense, and loss contingencies.
In addition, companies are required to capitalize certain contract acquisition costs, including commissions paid, when contracts are signed.
The asset recognized from capitalized incremental and recoverable acquisition costs is amortized on a straight-line basis consistent with the timing of transfer of the products or services to which the asset relates.
Substantially all of our equity investments that were not accounted for under the equity method were previously accounted for under the cost method and are now accounted for using the measurement alternative defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted for observable price changes.
Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Asset Transfers Other Than Inventory.
We have selected and are in the process of implementing a lease accounting system and finalizing our accounting policy and use of optional practical expedients.
For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model.
Additionally, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, we will measure credit losses in a manner similar to today, except that the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, discounts, distributor incentives and end-user rebates, and any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
For arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which may include hardware, software licenses, cloud services, support and maintenance, and professional services, we allocate revenue to each performance obligation on a relative fair value basis based on management’s estimate of stand-alone selling price (“SSP”).
Revenue for our Enterprise Security products is earned from arrangements that can include various combinations of software licenses, cloud services, hardware, support and maintenance, and professional services, which are sold directly to end-users or through a multi-tiered distribution channel.
As a result, historical returns and related reserves have been insignificant.
We offer channel rebates and marketing programs for our Enterprise Security products.
We had reserves for Enterprise Security rebates and marketing programs of $8 million recorded in Other current liabilities as of December 28, 2018, and $6 million recorded against Accounts receivable, net as of March 30, 2018.


item2.txt
We are a global leader in cyber security and provide cyber security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals worldwide.
Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.
•Cash flow from operating activities increased $264 million due to higher net income adjusted for non-cash items, partially offset by unfavorable net changes in operating assets and liabilities.
We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.


item4.txt



part2.txt
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below.
The list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock.
A decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results.
Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of outstanding securities in the future.
Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly.
Our customers’ renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline.
Accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers.
Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, the Audit Committee completed its internal investigation in September 2018.


