fls.txt
The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States of America (“U.S.”) for interim financial information.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
As a result of the new guidance, we now recognize excess tax benefits or deficiencies in the period in which the award vests.
We adopted the change in recognizing excess tax benefits using the modified retrospective method.
The cumulative effect of adopting the new accounting guidance was not material.
•Consumer Digital Safety.
Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact.
Operating segments are based upon the nature of our business and how our business is managed.
Basic income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.
Dilutive potentially issuable common shares includes the dilutive effect of the shares underlying convertible debt and employee equity awards.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes.


item2.txt
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
We believe one of our competitive advantages is our database of threat indicators.
We are leveraging our capabilities to deliver integrated solutions for customers.
See Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our divestiture.
•Consumer Digital Safety.
For more information on our operating segments see Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
•We paid aggregate cash consideration of $402 million for our acquisitions.
Percentage of revenue by geographic region presented below is based on the billing location of the customer.
As a result, we expect revenue to continue to be affected by foreign currency exchange rates as compared to the U.S. dollar.
We are unable to predict the extent to which revenue in future periods will be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Sales and marketing expense were relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
Amortization of intangible assets increased $9 million primarily due to the intangible assets acquired in the LifeLock acquisition.
We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements.
Restructuring, transition and other costs primarily consisted of $11 million and $75 million of severance costs and transition costs, respectively, during the third quarter in fiscal 2018, compared to $19 million and$26 million, respectively, during the same period in fiscal 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


