item1.txt
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other. Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis. Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term. On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments. Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
We have agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component. Leases with an initial lease term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet; we recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents. Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to RSUs and excluded from the calculation of income allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below. 
Potentially dilutive securities representing 6 million and 4 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, and 7 million and 4 million shares outstanding during the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of September 30, 2019. Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value. The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments. As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of long-term debt, including the current portion, was $5.80 billion, and the estimated fair value was $6.32 billion. The estimated fair value is measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs. See Note 4 for a description of fair value and the definition of Level 2 inputs.
We adopted ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (ASC 842) effective January 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective transition method applied to leases existing at, or entered into after, the adoption date. The reported results for 2019 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior periods are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 840, Leases. In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance that allowed us to apply prior conclusions related to lease definition, classification and initial direct costs.
This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets. Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of being incurred. Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities will be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a reduction to the amortized cost basis of the securities. We plan to adopt this standard when effective, beginning January 1, 2020, applying the guidance on a modified retrospective basis. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard, but we do not expect it to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.
Proceeds from sales, redemptions and maturities of short-term available-for-sale investments were $220 million and $1.72 billion for the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $2.00 billion and $4.55 billion for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively. Gross realized gains and losses from these sales were not material.
•Level 2 – Uses inputs other than Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date through correlation with market data, including quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets and quoted prices in markets that are not active. Level 2 also includes assets and liabilities that are valued using models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment since the input assumptions used in the models, such as interest rates and volatility factors, are corroborated by readily observable data. We utilize a third-party data service to provide Level 2 valuations. We verify these valuations for reasonableness relative to unadjusted quotes obtained from brokers or dealers based on observable prices for similar assets in active markets.


item2.txt
•Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors. Our customers need multiple chips for their systems. The breadth of our portfolio means we can meet more of these needs than our competitors can, which gives us access to more customers and the opportunity to sell more products and generate more revenue per customer system. We invest more than $1 billion each year to develop new products for our portfolio, which includes tens of thousands of products.
•Broadest reach of market channels. Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors’ websites. Our web presence, combined with our global sales force that is also greater in size than those of our competitors, are advantages that give us unique access to about 100,000 customers designing TI semiconductors into their end products.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities. Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation. This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term. We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow. Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash and return that cash to shareholders.
Our third quarter revenue was $3.77 billion, net income was $1.43 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.49.
Revenue of $3.77 billion decreased $490 million, or 11%, primarily due to lower revenue from Analog and Embedded Processing.
Gross profit of $2.45 billion was down $358 million, or 13%, due to lower revenue. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit decreased to 64.9% from 65.8%.
Revenue of $11.03 billion decreased $1.03 billion, or 9%, primarily due to lower revenue from Embedded Processing and Analog.
Gross profit of $7.07 billion was down $803 million, or 10%, primarily due to lower revenue. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit decreased to 64.1% from 65.2%.
Accounts receivable were $1.34 billion, an increase of $135 million compared with the end of 2018. Days sales outstanding at the end of the third quarter of 2019 were 32 compared with 29 at the end of 2018.
Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Additional sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and a variable-rate, revolving credit facility. Cash flows from operating activities for the first nine months of 2019 were $4.90 billion, a decrease of $149 million primarily due to lower net income.
Our revolving credit facility is with a consortium of investment-grade banks and allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024. This credit facility also serves as support for the issuance of commercial paper. As of September 30, 2019, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding.
Investing activities for the first nine months of 2019 provided $1 million compared with $1.58 billion of cash used in the year-ago period. Capital expenditures were $684 million compared with $808 million in the year-ago period and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in both periods. Short-term investments provided cash of $630 million compared with $763 million of cash used in the year-ago period.
Financing activities for the first nine months of 2019 used $3.44 billion compared with $3.62 billion in the year-ago period. In 2019, we received net proceeds of $1.49 billion from the issuance of fixed-rate, long-term debt, and we retired maturing debt of $750 million. In the year-ago period, we received net proceeds of $1.50 billion from the issuance of fixed-rate, long-term debt, and we retired maturing debt of $500 million. Dividends paid were $2.17 billion compared with $1.82 billion in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding. We used $2.47 billion to repurchase 23.4 million shares of our common stock compared with $3.09 billion used in the year-ago period to repurchase 28.6 million shares. Employee exercises of stock options provided cash proceeds of $491 million compared with $335 million in the year-ago period.
We had $3.89 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $1.17 billion of short-term investments as of September 30, 2019. We believe we have the necessary financial resources and operating plans to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend and debt-related payments, and other business requirements for at least the next 12 months.


part2.txt
3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated April 18, 1985, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) of the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014).
3(b)By-Laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 12, 2016).
4(a)Officer's Certificate, dated September 4, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 4, 2019).
31(b)Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Periodic Report Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).†


