item1.txt
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other. Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis. Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided. 
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination. The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products. Specifically, many of our products are shipped to our customers in China who may include these parts in the manufacture of their own end products, which they may in turn export to their customers around the world. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). The Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2018, are not audited but reflect all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature and are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the periods shown. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Because the consolidated interim financial statements do not include all of the information and notes required by GAAP for a complete set of financial statements, they should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. The results for the three-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.  
Revenue from sales of our products that is subject to inventory consignment agreements is recognized at a point in time, when the customer or distributor pulls product from consignment inventory that we store at designated locations. Transfer of control occurs at that point, when title and risk of loss transfers and the customer or distributor becomes obligated to pay for the products pulled from inventory. Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products. 
In addition, we record allowances for accounts receivable that we estimate may not be collected. We monitor collectability of accounts receivable primarily through review of accounts receivable aging. When collection is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made. 
Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to receive dividends or dividend equivalents, such as our restricted stock units (RSUs), are considered to be participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating EPS. Under the two-class method, a portion of Net income is allocated to these participating securities and, therefore, is excluded from the calculation of EPS allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.  
Potentially dilutive securities representing 5 million and 6 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share for these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of March 31, 2018. Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value. The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments. The carrying value of our long-term debt approximates the fair value as measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs. See Note 4 for a description of fair value and the definition of Level 2 inputs. 
This standard provides a single set of guidelines for revenue recognition to be used across all industries and requires additional disclosures. We adopted Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 (ASC 606) as of January 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective transition method applied only to contracts that were not completed as of the adoption date. The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (ASC 605). 
The time frame between when the customer places an order for products and when it is shipped is less than 12 months. Generally, we invoice customers for payment upon shipment or when goods are pulled from consignment inventory, which results in an unconditional right to consideration. Our contract assets are primarily related to our rights to consideration for satisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations on our royalty agreements for which payment has not been received as of the reporting date.  
We recognized an increase to opening retained earnings of $206 million, net of taxes, as of January 1, 2018, due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to our fixed payment patent licensing agreements that were not completed as of the adoption date. A contract asset of $283 million and deferred tax liabilities of $55 million were recorded as of January 1, 2018, related to the transition period adjustments.  
Occasionally, as of the end of a reporting period, some of the performance obligations associated with contracts will have been unsatisfied or only partially satisfied. In accordance with the practical expedients available in the guidance, we do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less. Similarly, we do not disclose information for variable-rate consideration on our sales-based or usage-based royalties for our patent licenses. 
This standard requires all leases that have a term of over 12 months to be recognized on the balance sheet with the liability for lease payments and the corresponding right-of-use asset initially measured at the present value of amounts expected to be paid over the term. Recognition of the costs of these leases on the income statement will be dependent upon their classification as either an operating or a financing lease. Costs of an operating lease will continue to be recognized as a single operating expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Costs for a financing lease will be disaggregated and recognized as both an operating expense (for the amortization of the right-of-use asset) and interest expense (for interest on the lease liability). This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2019, and must be applied on a modified retrospective basis. In March 2018, the FASB tentatively approved an optional transition method to initially account for the impact of the adoption with a cumulative-effect adjustment to the January 1, 2019, rather than January 1, 2017, financial statements. This would eliminate the need to restate amounts presented prior to January 1, 2019. We plan to adopt the standard effective January 1, 2019, and expect to elect this optional transition method. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on our financial position, but we do not expect it to have a material impact on our results of operations. 
This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets. Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of having been incurred. There are other provisions within the standard that affect how impairments of other financial assets may be recorded and presented, and that expand disclosures. This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2020, and permits earlier application but not before periods beginning January 1, 2019. The standard will be applied using a modified retrospective approach. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard, but we do not expect it to have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. 
This standard allows a reclassification of stranded tax effects as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings. The provisions from this guidance are effective for interim and annual periods beginning after January 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. This standard should be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period (or periods) in which the effects of the Tax Act are recognized. We plan to adopt this standard during the interim period in which we complete our accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act, applying the guidance to the period of adoption. This standard will have no impact on our results of operations. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on our financial position. 


item2.txt
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors. Our customers need multiple chips for their systems. The breadth of our portfolio means we can solve more of these needs than our competitors, which gives us access to more customers and the opportunity to sell more products and generate more revenue per customer system. We invest more than $1 billion each year to develop new products for our portfolio, which includes tens of thousands of products. 
Broadest reach of market channels. Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors. Our web presence, combined with our global sales force that is also greater in size than those of our competitors, are advantages that give us unique access to about 100,000 customers designing TI semiconductors into their end products. 
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities. Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation. This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term. We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders. 
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow. Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash, and return that cash to shareholders. 
Our first-quarter revenue was $3.79 billion, net income was $1.37 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.35. Earnings per share include 14 cents in tax-related benefits not in our original guidance. 
Our cash flow from operations of $5.7 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model. Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was up 17 percent from a year ago to $4.9 billion, or 32.1 percent of revenue. This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production. 
We have returned $5.1 billion to owners in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends, consistent with our strategy to return to owners all of our free cash flow. Over the last 12 months, our dividends represented 45 percent of free cash flow, emphasizing their sustainability. 
Gross profit of $2.45 billion was up $303 million, or 14 percent, due to higher revenue and lower manufacturing costs. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit increased to 64.6 percent from 63.0 percent. 
Embedded Processing revenue increased in both product lines, led by Processors. Operating profit increased primarily due to higher revenue and associated gross profit. 
Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Additional sources of liquidity are Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments and a variable-rate, revolving credit facility. Cash flows from operating activities for the first three months of 2018 were $1.11 billion, an increase of $317 million from the year-ago period. This increase was primarily due to higher Net income. 
Our revolving credit facility is with a consortium of investment-grade banks and allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2023. This credit facility also serves as support for the issuance of commercial paper. As of March 31, 2018, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding. 
Investing activities for the first three months of 2018 provided $266 million compared with $267 million in the year-ago period. Capital expenditures were $189 million compared with $127 million in the year-ago period and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in both periods. We had proceeds from sales of short-term investments, net of purchases, that provided cash of $459 million compared with $363 million in the year-ago period. 


part2.txt
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $7.5 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 17, 2015. On September 21, 2017, our board of directors authorized the purchase of an additional $6.0 billion of our common stock. 
In addition to open-market purchases, 467,544 shares of common stock were surrendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units. 


