item1.txt
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other. Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis. Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided. 
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination. The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products. Specifically, many of our products are shipped to our customers in China who may include these parts in the manufacture of their own end products, which they may in turn export to their customers around the world. 
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term. On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments. Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options. 
We have agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component. Leases with a lease term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet; we recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents. Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to RSUs and excluded from the calculation of income allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.  
Potentially dilutive securities representing 9 million and 5 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of March 31, 2019. Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value. The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments. The carrying value of our long-term debt approximates the fair value as measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs. See Note 4 for a description of fair value and the definition of Level 2 inputs. 
We adopted ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (ASC 842) effective January 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective transition method applied to leases existing at, or entered into after, the adoption date. The reported results for 2019 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior periods are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 840, Leases. In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance that allowed us to apply prior conclusions related to lease definition, classification and initial direct costs. 
The adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of $229 million of lease liabilities with corresponding lease assets as of January 1, 2019. The standard did not materially impact our consolidated results of operations and had no impact on cash flows. 
This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets. Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of having been incurred. There are other provisions within the standard that affect how impairments of other financial assets may be recorded and presented, and that expand disclosures. This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted beginning January 1, 2019, and must be applied on a modified retrospective basis. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard, but we do not expect it to have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. 
As of March 31, 2019, and December 31, 2018, unrealized gains and losses associated with our available-for-sale investments were not material. We did not recognize any credit losses related to available-for-sale investments for the first three months of 2019 and 2018. 
Proceeds from sales, redemptions and maturities of short-term available-for-sale investments were $1.58 billion and $1.46 billion for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. Gross realized gains and losses from these sales were not material. 
Level 2 – Uses inputs other than Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date through correlation with market data, including quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets and quoted prices in markets that are not active. Level 2 also includes assets and liabilities that are valued using models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment since the input assumptions used in the models, such as interest rates and volatility factors, are corroborated by readily observable data. We utilize a third-party data service to provide Level 2 valuations. We verify these valuations for reasonableness relative to unadjusted quotes obtained from brokers or dealers based on observable prices for similar assets in active markets. 


item2.txt
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology. We invest in manufacturing technologies and do most of our manufacturing in-house. This strategic decision to directly control our manufacturing helps ensure a consistent supply of products for our customers and also allows us to invest in technology that differentiates the features of our products. We have focused on creating a competitive manufacturing cost advantage by investing in our advanced analog 300-millimeter capacity, which has about a 40% cost advantage per unpackaged chip over 200-millimeter. To strengthen this advantage, we are planning our next phase of 300-millimeter capacity expansion as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth. 
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors. Our customers need multiple chips for their systems. The breadth of our portfolio means we can meet more of these needs than our competitors can, which gives us access to more customers and the opportunity to sell more products and generate more revenue per customer system. We invest more than $1 billion each year to develop new products for our portfolio, which includes tens of thousands of products. 
Broadest reach of market channels. Customers often begin their initial product selection process and design-in journey on our website, and the breadth of our portfolio attracts more customers to our website than any of our competitors’ websites. Our web presence, combined with our global sales force that is also greater in size than those of our competitors, are advantages that give us unique access to about 100,000 customers designing TI semiconductors into their end products. 
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities. Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation. This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term. We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders. 
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow. Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash and return that cash to shareholders. 
Our segments represent groups of similar products that are combined on the basis of similar design and development requirements, product characteristics, manufacturing processes and distribution channels, and how management allocates resources and measures results. See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments. 
Our cash flow from operations of $7.2 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model. Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was $6.0 billion and represents 38.4% of revenue. This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production. 
We have returned $8.0 billion to owners in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends. Our strategy is to return all our free cash flow to shareholders. Over the last 12 months, our dividends represented 45% of free cash flow, underscoring their sustainability. 
Gross profit of $2.26 billion was down $186 million, or 8%, due to lower revenue and reduced factory loadings. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit decreased to 62.9% from 64.6%. 
Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Additional sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and a variable-rate, revolving credit facility. Cash flows from operating activities for the first three months of 2019 and 2018 were $1.11 billion. 
Our revolving credit facility is with a consortium of investment-grade banks and allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024. This credit facility also serves as support for the issuance of commercial paper. As of March 31, 2019, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding. 
Investing activities for the first three months of 2019 provided $1.17 billion compared with $266 million in the year-ago period. Capital expenditures were $251 million compared with $189 million in the year-ago period and were primarily for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in both periods. We had sales of short-term investments, net of purchases, that provided cash proceeds of $1.44 billion compared with $459 million in the year-ago period. 
Financing activities for the first three months of 2019 used $998 million compared with $1.32 billion in the year-ago period. In 2019, we received net proceeds of $743 million from the issuance of fixed-rate, long-term debt. Dividends paid were $724 million compared with $611 million in the year-ago period, reflecting an increase in the dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding. We used $1.15 billion to repurchase 11.7 million shares of our common stock compared with $873 million used in the year-ago period to repurchase 8.2 million shares. Employee exercises of stock options provided cash proceeds of $151 million compared with $178 million in the year-ago period. 
We believe that free cash flow and the associated ratios provide insight into our liquidity, our cash-generating capability and the amount of cash potentially available to return to shareholders, as well as insight into our financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are supplemental to the comparable GAAP measures. 


part2.txt
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $6.0 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 21, 2017. On September 20, 2018, our board of directors authorized the purchase of an additional $12.0 billion of our common stock. 
In addition to open-market purchases, 403,016 shares of common stock were surrendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units. 


