Our China location also serves as the engineering design support center responsible for arranging pre-production scheduling and mass production runs with joint venture partners for our projects, making component datasheets and test specifications, preparing samples, monitoring quality of shipments and performing failure analysis reports.
The unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all wholly owned divisions, including its 60% majority-owned subsidiary, Taitron Components Mexico, S.A. de C.V. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense.
This guidance will be effective in the first quarter of 2019 with early adoption permitted.
In January 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing in Item 1 of Part 1of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
These estimates have a significant impact on our valuation and reserve accounts relating to the allowance for sales returns, doubtful accounts, inventory reserves and deferred income taxes.
Revenue Recognition – Revenue is recognized upon shipment of the products, which is when legal transfer of title occurs and control of the product is transferred to the customer.
Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.
In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated.
We are primarily focused on supplying ODM products for our OEM customer’s multi-year turn-key projects.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we have classified inventory as a current asset in our September 30, 2018, condensed consolidated financial statements representing approximately 51% of current assets and 36% of total assets.
However, if all or a substantial portion of the inventory was required to be immediately liquidated, the inventory would not be as readily marketable or liquid as other items included or classified as a current asset, such as cash.Controls and Procedures.Legal Proceedings.