fls.txt



item1.txt
Our China location also serves as the engineering designs support center responsible for arranging pre-production scheduling and mass production runs with joint venture partners for our projects, making component datasheets and test specifications, preparing samples, monitoring quality of shipments and performing failure analysis reports.
The unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all wholly owned divisions, including its 60% majority-owned subsidiary, Taitron Components Mexico, S.A. de C.V. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense.
This guidance will be effective in the first quarter of 2019 with early adoption permitted.
We have evaluated the impact of adopting this guidance and we are preparing for the changes to be made to our consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
In January 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.
Early adoption is permitted for transactions that have not been reported in financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
In May 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 (ASU 2014-09) applying the modified retrospective method.
Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.
In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated.
This investment is accounted for under the cost method basis of accounting.


item2.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing in Item 1 of Part 1of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
These estimates have a significant impact on our valuation and reserve accounts relating to the allowance for sales returns, doubtful accounts, inventory reserves and deferred income taxes.
Revenue Recognition – Revenue is recognized upon shipment of the products, which is when legal transfer of title occurs and control of the product is transferred to the customer.
Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.
In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated.
We are primarily focused on supplying ODM products for our OEM customer’s multi-year turn-key projects.
As a result, we expect our components inventory will be more passively marketed and distributed online for clearance through our internet sales portal, however at potentially lower rates due to the pricing pressures normally attributed with online shopping.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we have classified inventory as a current asset in our March 31, 2018, condensed consolidated financial statements representing approximately 50% of current assets and 34% of total assets.
The decrease was primarily due material shortages, longer production lead times and lower valued per unit products shipped.
Other income, net of other expense, in the first quarter of 2018 was $48,000 versus $29,000 in the comparable period for 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.
Mine Safety Disclosures.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings.
Other Information.


