fls.txt
This document contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are subject to risks and uncertainties.


item1.txt
Our China location also serves as the engineering design support center responsible for arranging pre-production scheduling and mass production runs with joint venture partners for our projects, making component datasheets and test specifications, preparing samples, monitoring quality of shipments and performing failure analysis reports.
The unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all wholly owned divisions, including its 60% majority-owned subsidiary, Taitron Components Mexico, S.A. de C.V. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on leasing.
The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense.
In May 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as fulfillment costs and are included in cost of products sold.
Based upon the nature of our contracts with customers and our performance obligations within those contracts, we have no contract assets or liabilities as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.


item2.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing in Item 1 of Part 1 of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
These estimates have a significant impact on our valuation and reserve accounts relating to the allowance for sales returns, doubtful accounts, inventory reserves and deferred income taxes.
Revenue Recognition – Revenue is recognized upon shipment of the products, which is when legal transfer of title occurs and control of the product is transferred to the customer.
Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.
In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated.
We are primarily focused on supplying ODM products for our OEM customer’s multi-year turn-key projects.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we have classified inventory as a current asset in our June 30, 2019, condensed consolidated financial statements representing approximately 45% of current assets and 32% of total assets.
The $66,000 increase was primarily driven by an increase in salaries for severance pay incurred during the second quarter of 2019.
Other income, net of other expense, in the second quarter of 2019 was $31,000 versus $29,000 in the comparable period for 2018.
Other income was primarily derived from the rental income of excess office space at our headquarters in Valencia, CA.
Income tax provision was $1,000 for both the second quarter of 2019 and 2018, as we do not expect significant taxable income for the year ending December 31, 2019.
The $36,000 increase was primarily driven by an increase of $66,000 in salaries primarily for severance pay incurred during the second quarter of 2019, offset by a decrease of $23,000 in professional fees paid for engineering design services.
Other income, net of other expenses, in the six months ended June 30, 2019 was $56,000 versus $77,000 in the comparable period for 2018.
Other income was primarily derived from the rental income of excess office space at our headquarters in Valencia, CA.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.
Mine Safety Disclosures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Other Information.


