Municipal water, the largest category by sales volume, includes mechanical and ultrasonic (electronic) water meters and related technologies and services used by municipal water utilities as the basis for generating water and wastewater revenues. The key market for the Company’s municipal water meter products is North America, primarily the United States, because most of the Company's meters are designed and manufactured to conform to standards promulgated by the American Water Works Association. The majority of water meters sold by the Company continue to be mechanical in nature. In recent years, the Company has made inroads in selling ultrasonic water meters. The development of smaller diameter ultrasonic water meters combined with advanced radio technology now provides the Company with the opportunity to sell into other geographical markets, for example Europe, the Middle East and South America. In the municipal water category, sales of water meters and related technologies and services are also commonly referred to as residential or commercial water meter sales, the latter referring to larger sizes of water meters.
Critical to the water metering ecosystem is information and analytics. The Company’s BEACON AMA Managed Solution is the latest in metering technology. BEACON AMA combines the BEACON analytical software suite with proven ORION technologies using two-way fixed and cellular networks in a managed solution, improving utilities’ visibility of their water consumption and eliminating the need for costly utility-managed infrastructure.
The BEACON AMA secure, cloud-hosted software suite includes a customizable dashboard, the ability to establish alerts for specific conditions, and consumer engagement tools that allow end water customers to view and manage their water usage activity. Benefits to the utility include improved customer service, increased visibility through faster leak detection, the ability to promote and quantify the effects of its water conservation efforts, and easier compliance reporting.
Water meter replacement and the adoption and deployment of new technology comprise the majority of water meter product sales, including radio products. To a much lesser extent, housing starts also contribute to the new product sales base. Over the last decade, there has been a growing trend in the conversion from manually read water meters to radio technology. This conversion rate is accelerating and contributes to an increased water meter and radio solutions base of business. The Company estimates that approximately 55% to 60% of water meters installed in the United States have been converted to a radio solutions technology. The Company’s strategy is to fulfill customers’ metering expectations and requirements with its proprietary meter reading systems or other systems available through its alliance partners in the marketplace.
Flow instrumentation products serve flow measurement and control applications across a broad industrial spectrum, occasionally leveraging the same technologies used in the municipal water category. Specialized communication protocols that control the entire flow measurement process and mandatory certifications drive these markets. The Company’s specific flow measurement and control applications and technologies serve the flow measurement market through both customized and standard flow instrumentation solutions.
Industries today face accelerating demands to contain costs, reduce product variability, and meet ever-changing safety, regulatory and sustainability requirements. To address these challenges, customers must reap more value from every component in their systems. This system-wide scrutiny has heightened the focus on flow instrumentation in industrial process, manufacturing, commercial fluid, building automation, and precision engineering applications where flow measurement and control are critical.
An industry leader in both mechanical and electrical flow metering technologies, the Company offers one of the broadest flow measurement, control and communication portfolios in the market. The portfolio carries respected brand names including Recordall®, E-Series, ORION, Hedland®, Dynasonics®, Blancett®, and Research Control®, and includes eight of the ten major flow meter technologies. Customers rely on the Company for application-specific solutions that deliver accurate, timely and dependable flow data and control essential for product quality, cost control, safer operations, regulatory compliance, and more sustainable operations.
Increasingly, the electric utility industry relies on AMI technology for two-way communication to monitor and control electrical devices at the customer's site. Although the Company does not sell products for electric market applications, the trend toward AMI affects the markets in which the Company does participate, particularly for those customers in the water utility market that are interested in more frequent and diverse data collection. Specifically, AMI and AMA technologies enable water utilities to capture readings from each meter at more frequent and variable intervals. Similar to the electric utility industry’s conversion to solid-state meters in recent years, the water utility industry is beginning the conversion from mechanical to ultrasonic meters. Ultrasonic water metering has lower barriers to entry, which could affect the competitive landscape for the water meter market in North America.
On April 2, 2018, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of Innovative Metering Solutions, Inc. ("IMS") of Odessa, Florida, which was one of the Company's distributors serving Florida. 
The total purchase consideration was approximately $12.0 million, which included $7.7 million in cash, a $0.3 million working capital adjustment, a balance sheet holdback of $0.7 million and settlement of $3.3 million of pre-existing Company receivables. The working capital adjustment was settled in the second quarter of 2018 and the balance sheet holdback has been included as a payable on the Company's consolidated balance sheet. The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price at June 30, 2018 included $3.8 million of receivables, $0.8 million of inventories, $0.1 million of machinery and equipment, $3.6 million of intangibles and $3.7 million of goodwill. The intangible assets acquired are customer relationships with an estimated average useful life of 10 years. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired was based upon the estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had not completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired. This acquisition is further described in Note 5 “Acquisitions” in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. 
The total purchase consideration for the Carolina Meter assets was $6.2 million, which included $2.0 million in cash and settlement of $4.2 million of pre-existing Company receivables. The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price at December 31, 2017 included $0.6 million of receivables, $0.3 million of inventories, $3.3 million of intangibles and $2.0 million of goodwill. The intangible assets acquired are primarily customer relationships with an estimated average useful life of 12 years. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired was based upon the estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. As of June 30, 2018, the Company has not completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired. This acquisition is further described in Note 5 “Acquisitions” in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. 
The purchase price was approximately $23.2 million in cash, plus a small working capital adjustment. The purchase price included $5.4 million in payments that are anticipated to be made in 2018 which are recorded in payables and other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at March 31, 2018. The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price included approximately $0.3 million in receivables, $0.6 million of inventories, $0.2 million in machinery and equipment, $10.9 million of intangibles and $16.1 million of goodwill. The Company also assumed $4.9 million of liabilities as part of the acquisition. As of March 31, 2018, the Company completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with no additional adjustments. This acquisition is further described in Note 5 “Acquisitions” in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. 
As the industry continues to evolve, the Company has been vigilant in anticipating and exceeding customer expectations. In 2011, the Company introduced AMA as a hardware and software solution for water and gas utilities, and then in early 2014 launched its new BEACON AMA system, as a managed solution, which it believes will help maintain the Company's position as a market leader. Since its inception, sales of BEACON AMA have continued to grow with large cities and private water utilities selecting BEACON AMA and the Company’s industry-leading water meters.
The Company continues to seek opportunities for additional revenue enhancement. For instance, the Company is periodically asked to oversee and perform field installation of its products for certain customers. The Company assumes the role of general contractor, hiring installation subcontractors and supervising their work. The Company also supports its product and technology sales with the sale of extended service programs that provide additional services beyond the standard warranty. In recent years, the Company has sold ORION radio technology to natural gas utilities for installation on their gas meters. Most recently, the introduction of the BEACON AMA system opens the door to “software as a service” revenues. Revenues from such products and services are not yet significant and the Company is uncertain of the potential growth achievable for such products and services in future periods.
The Company’s net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased $9.4 million, or 9.0%, to $113.6 million compared to $104.2 million during the same period in 2017.
Municipal water sales represented 77.5% of sales in the second quarter of 2018 compared to 76.8% in the second quarter of 2017. These sales increased $7.9 million, or 9.9%, to $88.0 million in the second quarter of 2018 from $80.1 million in the second quarter of 2017. The increase was due to higher prices and increased domestic volumes sold of newer technologies in meters and related radios as well as higher service revenue. Higher international sales also contributed to the increase, particularly in the Middle East. 
 Flow instrumentation products represented 22.5% of sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 compared to 23.2% during the same period in 2017. These sales increased $1.5 million, or 6.2%, to $25.6 million from $24.1 million in the same period last year. The increase was due to the continued rebound in the oil and gas market and other targeted markets served.
The provision for income taxes as a percentage of earnings before income taxes for the second quarter of 2018 was 22.2% compared to 35.5% in the second quarter of 2017. Interim provisions are tied to an estimate of the overall annual rate that can vary due to state taxes, the relationship of foreign and domestic earnings and other credits available. The decrease between years was due primarily to the lower Federal tax rate, which declined from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018.
As a result of the above-mentioned items, net earnings for the three months ended June 30, 2018 were $6.2 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, compared to $10.6 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, for the same period in 2017.
Municipal water sales represented 77.0% of sales for the first six months of 2018, the same as the first six months of 2017. These sales increased $10.2 million, or 6.4%, to $168.5 million from $158.3 million in 2017 and were driven by higher prices and increased domestic volumes sold of newer technologies in meters and related radios as well as higher service revenue. Higher international sales also contributed to the increase, particularly in the Middle East. Offsetting this somewhat were lower volumes of commercial meters sold.
Flow instrumentation products represented 23.0% of sales for the six months ended June 30, 2018, the same as the first six months of 2017. These sales increased $2.7 million, or 5.7%, to $50.2 million for the first six months in 2018 compared to $47.5 million in the same period last year due to higher sales into the oil and gas market as well as other targeted markets.
Selling, engineering and administration expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased $2.6 million, or 5.3%, to $51.9 million from $49.3 million in the same period in 2017. Higher healthcare, sales commission and research and development expenses contributed to the increase in addition the additional staffing from recent acquisitions and normal inflationary increases. 
To some degree, lower overall employee incentives offset the higher costs.
As a result of the above-mentioned items, net earnings for the six months ended June 30, 2017 were $13.7 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, compared to $19.4 million, or $0.67 per diluted share, for the same period in 2017.
The main sources of liquidity for the Company are cash from operations and borrowing capacity. Cash provided by operations was $25.2 million for the first six months of 2018 compared to $37.3 million through the first six months of 2017. Last year’s amount was favorably impacted by a decrease in inventory balances which did not recur this year. This, along with higher receivable balances are the primary reasons for the decline.
Receivables increased from $58.2 million at December 31, 2017 to $65.3 million at June 30, 2018. Generally, receivable balances are lower at year-end than at other times of the year due to seasonality in the Company’s business. The Company believes its net receivables balance is fully collectible.
Net property, plant and equipment decreased slightly from $93.6 million at December 31, 2017 to $92.7 million at June 30, 2018. This was the net effect of depreciation expense, offset somewhat by $5.2 million of capital expenditures in the first six months of 2018.
Intangible assets decreased to $59.1 million at June 30, 2018 from $59.3 million at December 31, 2017 due to normal amortization expense, offset by an increase of $3.7 million related to the acquisition of IMS. The acquisition was also the main reason for the increase in goodwill from $67.4 million on December 31, 2017 to $71.1 million on June 30, 2018.
Short-term debt at June 30, 2018 decreased to $42.4 million from $44.6 million at December 31, 2017 due to the timing of cash needs.
Payables and other current liabilities of $28.1 million at June 30, 2018 decreased from $28.6 million at December 31, 2017. These balances were impacted by the timing of purchases and payments.
Accrued compensation and employee benefits decreased to $9.6 million at June 30, 2018 from $15.5 million at December 31, 2017 due to payments made in the first two quarters of 2018 related to 2017 earned employee incentives, offset somewhat by provisions made for 2018 employee incentives earned to date.
Other long-term liabilities increased to $13.7 million compared to $4.1 million on December 31, 2017. The increase was due primarily to higher deferred revenue associated with the Beacon AMA offering.
The overall increase in total shareholders’ equity from $277.5 million at December 31, 2017 to $288.5 million at June 30, 2018 was the net effect of net earnings and stock options exercised, offset by dividends paid and repurchased stock.
The Company’s financial condition remains strong. In June 2018, the Company amended its May 2012 credit agreement with its primary lender to extend until September 2021 the $125.0 million line of credit that supports commercial paper (up to $70.0 million) and includes $5.0 million of a Euro line of credit. While the facility is unsecured, there are a number of financial covenants with which the Company must comply, and the Company was in compliance as of June 30, 2018. The Company believes that its operating cash flows, available borrowing capacity, and its ability to raise capital provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures and the development of new products. The Company continues to take advantage of its local commercial paper market and carefully monitors the current borrowing market. The Company had $90.7 million of unused credit lines available at June 30, 2018.
The Company is subject to contingencies related to environmental laws and regulations. A future change in circumstances with respect to these specific matters or with respect to sites formerly or currently owned or operated by the Company, off-site disposal locations used by the Company, and property owned by third parties that is near such sites, could result in future costs to the Company and such amounts could be material. Expenditures for compliance with environmental control provisions and regulations during 2017 and the first half of 2018 were not material.
