Municipal water, the largest sales category, is comprised of either mechanical or static (ultrasonic) water meters along with the related radio and software technologies and services used by municipal water utilities as the basis for generating their water and wastewater revenues. The largest geographic market for the Company’s municipal water products is North America, primarily the United States, because most of the Company's meters are designed and manufactured to conform to standards promulgated by the American Water Works Association. The majority of water meters sold by the Company continue to be mechanical in nature; however, ultrasonic meters are gaining in penetration due to a variety of factors, including their ability to maintain near absolute measurement accuracy over their useful life. Providing ultrasonic water meter technology, combined with advanced radio technology, provides the Company with the opportunity to sell into other geographical markets, for example, the Middle East and Europe.  
Municipal water meters (both residential and commercial) are generally classified as either manually read meters or remotely read meters via radio technology. A manually read meter consists of a water meter and a register that provides a visual totalized meter reading. Meters equipped with radio technology (endpoints) receive flow measurement data from battery-powered encoder registers attached to the water meter, which is encrypted and transmitted via radio frequency to a receiver that collects and formats the data appropriately for water utility usage and billing systems. These remotely read systems are classified as either automatic meter reading (AMR) systems, where a vehicle equipped for meter reading purposes, including a radio receiver, computer and reading software, collects the data from utilities’ meters; or advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) systems, where data is gathered utilizing a network (either fixed or cellular) of data collectors or gateway receivers that are able to receive radio data transmission from the utilities’ meters. AMI systems eliminate the need for utility personnel to drive through service territories to collect data from the meters. These systems provide the utilities with more frequent and diverse data from their meters at specified intervals. 
The ORION® branded family of radio endpoints provides water utilities with a range of industry-leading options for meter reading. These include ORION Migratable (ME) for AMR meter reading, ORION (SE) for traditional fixed network applications, and ORION Cellular for an infrastructure-free meter reading solution. ORION Migratable makes the migration to fixed network easier for utilities that prefer to start with mobile reading and later adopt fixed network communications, allowing utilities to choose a solution for their current needs and be positioned for their future operational changes. ORION Cellular eliminates the need for utility-owned fixed network infrastructure, allows for gradual or full deployment, and decreases ongoing maintenance. 
Critical to the water metering ecosystem is information and analytics. The Company’s BEACON Advanced Metering Analytics (AMA) software suite improves the utilities’ visibility of their water and water usage. BEACON AMA is a secure, cloud-hosted software suite that includes a customizable dashboard, and has the ability to establish alerts for specific conditions. It also allows for consumer engagement tools that permit end water users (such as homeowners) to view and manage their water usage activity. Benefits to the utility include improved customer service, increased visibility through faster leak detection, the ability to promote and quantify the effects of its water conservation efforts, and easier compliance reporting. 
Water meter replacement and the adoption and deployment of new technology comprise the majority of water meter product sales, including radio products. To a much lesser extent, housing starts also contribute to the new product sales base. Over the last decade, there has been a growing trend in the conversion from manually read water meters to meters with radio technology. This conversion rate is accelerating, with the Company estimating that approximately 60% of water meters installed in the United States have been converted to a radio solution technology. 
Flow instrumentation products are used in flow measurement and control applications across a broad industrial spectrum, occasionally leveraging the same technologies used in the municipal water category. Specialized communication protocols that control the entire flow measurement process and mandatory certifications drive these markets. The Company provides both standard and customized flow instrumentation solutions. 
The industries served by the Company’s flow instrumentation products face accelerating demands to contain costs, reduce product variability, and meet ever-changing safety, regulatory and sustainability requirements. To address these challenges, customers must reap more value from every component in their systems. This system-wide scrutiny has heightened the focus on flow instrumentation in industrial process, manufacturing, commercial fluid, building automation and precision engineering applications where flow measurement and control are critical. 
A leader in both mechanical and static (ultrasonic) flow metering technologies for industrial markets, the Company offers one of the broadest flow measurement, control and communication portfolios in the market. This portfolio carries respected brand names including Recordall®, Hedland®, Dynasonics®, Blancett®, and Research Control®, and includes eight of the ten major flow meter technologies. Customers rely on the Company for application-specific solutions that deliver accurate, timely and dependable flow data and control essential for product quality, cost control, safer operations, regulatory compliance and more sustainable operations. 
Business Trends 
Increasingly, customers in the water utility market are interested in more frequent and diverse data collection. Specifically, AMI technology enables water utilities to capture readings from each meter at more frequent and variable intervals. There are approximately 52,000 water utilities in the United States and the Company estimates that approximately 60% of them have converted to a radio solution. The Company believes it is well positioned to meet this continuing conversion trend with its comprehensive radio and software solutions. 
Acquisition 
The total purchase consideration was approximately $12.0 million, which included $7.7 million in cash, a $0.3 million working capital adjustment, a balance sheet holdback of $0.7 million and settlement of $3.3 million of pre-existing Company receivables. The working capital adjustment was paid in the second quarter of 2018 and the balance sheet holdback was settled in the second quarter of 2019. The Company's allocation of the purchase price at June 30, 2018 included $3.8 million of receivables, $0.8 million of inventories, $0.1 million of machinery and equipment, $3.6 million of intangibles and $3.7 million of goodwill. The intangible assets acquired are customer relationships with an estimated average useful life of 10 years. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired with no additional adjustments. This acquisition is further described in Note 5 "Acquisition" in the Unaudited Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. 
In the first quarter of 2019, the Company made a contingent payment of $1.0 million related to the May 1, 2017 acquisition of 100% of the outstanding common stock of D-Flow. There is an additional $2.0 million of contingent payments related to the D-Flow acquisition that is anticipated to be made in 2019 which is recorded in payables on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2019. 
Revenue and Product Mix 
The Company also seeks opportunities for additional revenue enhancement. For instance, the Company has made inroads into the Middle East market with its ultrasonic meter technology and is pursuing other geographic expansion opportunities. The Company is periodically asked to oversee and perform field installation of its products for certain customers. The Company assumes the role of general contractor and either performs the installation or hires installation subcontractors and supervises their work.  
Net Sales 
The Company’s net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 were $103.5 million compared to $113.6 million during the same period in 2018. Sales into the municipal water market were $79.5 million, a decrease of 9.7% from the prior year’s $88.0 million. The sales decline resulted from customer deferral of orders in order to obtain the latest version of advanced technology products including ORION Cellular LTE-M endpoints, where customer pilots and testing continue without issue. In addition, newly developed three and four-inch commercial E-Series® Ultrasonic water meters are now expected to begin shipping later this year. Finally, prior year municipal water sales included a large Middle East order, which did not repeat. The Company did benefit from continued positive sales mix reflecting a higher percentage of meters with radios, ultrasonic meters and SaaS revenue associated with data collection and software analytics. Sales of products into the global flow instrumentation end markets were $24.0 million, 6.6% lower than the prior year’s $25.7 million. The decline was due to the lower volumes across the vast array of industrial end markets served, most notably in North America.  
Earnings 
Other pension and postretirement costs in the second quarter of 2018 included a settlement charge of $8.2 million in connection with the planned termination of the Company’s pension plan, which was finalized in 2018.  
As a result of the above-mentioned items, net earnings for the three months ended June 30, 2019 were $11.4 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, compared to $6.2 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, for the same period in 2018. 
Net Sales 
The Company’s net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $208.4 million, a decrease of 4.7% from the comparable prior year’s sales of $218.7 million. Sales into the municipal water market were $160.7 million, a decline 4.6% over the prior year’s $168.5 million. Municipal water sales benefitted from modestly higher commercial sales in the U.S., which were more than offset by lower residential volumes in both the US and international markets. Customers deferred orders in order to obtain the latest versions of newer technology radios and meters which are in advanced testing stages. The Company did benefit from continued positive sales mix reflecting a higher percentage of meters with radios, ultrasonic meters and SaaS revenue associated with data collection and software analytics. Sales of products into the global flow instrumentations end markets were $47.7 million, approximately 5.0% lower than the prior year’s $50.2 million. The majority of the decline was due lower general industrial demand across the diverse end markets served, as well as unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations year-over-year. 
Earnings 
Other pension and postretirement costs for the six months ending June 30, 2018 included a settlement charge of $8.2 million in connection with the planned termination of the Company’s pension plan, which was finalized in 2018.  
As a result of the above-mentioned items, net earnings for the six months ended June 30, 2019 were $22.2 million, or $0.76 per diluted share, compared to $13.7 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, for the same period in 2018. 
The main sources of liquidity for the Company are cash from operations and borrowing capacity. In addition, depending on market conditions, the Company may access the capital markets to strengthen its capital position and to provide additional liquidity for general corporate purposes. 
Overall, PWC declined $10.6 million compared to the previous calendar year end. Receivables at June 30, 2019 declined $6.0 million due to both lower sales volumes as well as effective collection efforts. Inventories increased modestly at June 30, 2019 with higher backlog, while Payables at June 30, 2019 were $7.1 million higher than year end due to the timing of payments. 
Cash provided by operations in the first six months of 2019 was $40.9 million compared to $25.2 million in the same period of 2018. The increase is due primarily to higher net earnings and effective working capital management. 
Capital expenditures for the first six months of 2019 were $4.5 million compared to $5.2 million in the first six months of 2018. 
Short-term debt decreased $13.5 million to $4.6 million at June 30, 2019 from $18.1 million at December 31, 2018 due to the strong cash flow from operations, partially offset by the payment of dividends. At the end of the second quarter of 2019, the Company is in a net cash (cash less short-term debt) position of $19.3 million. 
The Company’s financial condition remains strong. In June 2018, the Company amended its May 2012 credit agreement with its primary lender and extended its term until September 2021. The credit agreement includes a $125.0 million line of credit that supports commercial paper (up to $70.0 million) and includes $5.0 million of a Euro line of credit. While the facility is unsecured, there are a number of financial covenants with which the Company must comply, and the Company was in compliance as of June 30, 2019. The Company believes that its operating cash flows, available borrowing capacity, and its ability to raise capital provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures and the development of new products. The Company continues to take advantage of its local commercial paper market and carefully monitors the current borrowing market. The Company had $128.4 million of unused credit lines available at June 30, 2019. 
Item 2Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
In February 2017, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 400,000 shares of the Company’s Common Stock through February 2020. The following table provides information about the Company's purchases during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 of equity securities that are registered by the Company pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act. 
Table of Contents  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
