Municipal water, the largest sales category, is comprised of either mechanical or static (ultrasonic) water meters along with the related radio and software technologies and services used by municipal water utilities as the basis for generating their water and wastewater revenues. The largest geographic market for the Company’s municipal water products is North America, primarily the United States, because most of the Company's meters are designed and manufactured to conform to standards promulgated by the American Water Works Association. The majority of water meters sold by the Company continue to be mechanical in nature; however, ultrasonic meters are gaining in penetration due to a variety of factors, including their ability to maintain near absolute measurement accuracy over their useful life. Providing ultrasonic water meter technology, combined with advanced radio technology, provides the Company with the opportunity to sell into other geographical markets, for example the Middle East and Europe.  
Critical to the water metering ecosystem is information and analytics. The Company’s BEACON Advanced Metering Analytics (AMA) software suite improves the utilities’ visibility of their water and water usage. BEACON AMA is a secure, cloud-hosted software suite that includes a customizable dashboard, and has the ability to establish alerts for specific conditions. It also allows for consumer engagement tools that permit end water users (such as homeowners) to view and manage their water usage activity. Benefits to the utility include improved customer service, increased visibility through faster leak detection, the ability to promote and quantify the effects of its water conservation efforts, and easier compliance reporting. 
Water meter replacement and the adoption and deployment of new technology comprise the majority of water meter product sales, including radio products. To a much lesser extent, housing starts also contribute to the new product sales base. Over the last decade, there has been a growing trend in the conversion from manually read water meters to meters with radio technology. This conversion rate is accelerating, with the Company estimating that approximately 60% of water meters installed in the United States have been converted to a radio solution technology. 
The Company’s net sales and corresponding net earnings depend on unit volume and product mix, with the Company generally earning higher average selling prices and margins on meters equipped with radio technology, and higher margins on ultrasonic compared to mechanical meters. The Company’s proprietary radio products (i.e. ORION) generally result in higher margins than the remarketed, non-proprietary technology products. The Company also sells registers and endpoints separately to customers who wish to upgrade their existing meters in the field.  
Flow instrumentation products are used in flow measurement and control applications across a broad industrial spectrum, occasionally leveraging the same technologies used in the municipal water category. Specialized communication protocols that control the entire flow measurement process and mandatory certifications drive these markets. The Company provides both standard and customized flow instrumentation solutions. 
The industries served by the Company’s flow instrumentation products face accelerating demands to contain costs, reduce product variability, and meet ever-changing safety, regulatory and sustainability requirements. To address these challenges, customers must reap more value from every component in their systems. This system-wide scrutiny has heightened the focus on flow instrumentation in industrial process, manufacturing, commercial fluid, building automation and precision engineering applications where flow measurement and control are critical. 
A leader in both mechanical and static (ultrasonic) flow metering technologies for industrial markets, the Company offers one of the broadest flow measurement, control and communication portfolios in the market. This portfolio carries respected brand names including Recordall®, Hedland®, Dynasonics®, Blancett®, and Research Control®, and includes eight of the ten major flow meter technologies. Customers rely on the Company for application-specific solutions that deliver accurate, timely and dependable flow data and control essential for product quality, cost control, safer operations, regulatory compliance and more sustainable operations. 
Increasingly, customers in the water utility market are interested in more frequent and diverse data collection. Specifically, AMI technology enables water utilities to capture readings from each meter at more frequent and variable intervals. There are approximately 52,000 water utilities in the United States and the Company estimates that approximately 60% of them have converted to a radio solution. The Company believes it is well positioned to meet this continuing conversion trend with its comprehensive radio and software solutions. 
On April 2, 2018, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of Innovative Metering Solutions, Inc. ("IMS") of Odessa, Florida, which was one of the Company's distributors serving Florida. 
The total purchase consideration was approximately $12.0 million, which included $7.7 million in cash, a $0.3 million working capital adjustment, a balance sheet holdback of $0.7 million and settlement of $3.3 million of pre-existing Company receivables. The working capital adjustment was settled in the second quarter of 2018 and the balance sheet holdback is recorded in payables on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as it is anticipated to be paid in the next twelve months. The Company's allocation of the purchase price at June 30, 2018 included $3.8 million of receivables, $0.8 million of inventories, $0.1 million of machinery and equipment, $3.6 million of intangibles and $3.7 million of goodwill. The intangible assets acquired are customer relationships with an estimated average useful life of 10 years. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired with no additional adjustments. This acquisition is further described in Note 5 "Acquisition" in the Unaudited Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. 
In the first quarter of 2019, the Company made a contingent payment of $1.0 million related to the May 1, 2017 acquisition of 100% of the outstanding common stock of D-Flow. There is an additional $2.0 million of contingent payments related to the D-Flow acquisition that is anticipated to be made in 2019 which is recorded in payables on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at March 31, 2019. 
The Company also seeks opportunities for additional revenue enhancement. For instance, the Company has made inroads into the Middle East market with its ultrasonic meter technology and is pursuing other geographic expansion opportunities. The Company is periodically asked to oversee and perform field installation of its products for certain customers. The Company assumes the role of general contractor and either performs the installation or hires installation subcontractors and supervises their work.  
As a result of the above-mentioned items, net earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $10.8 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, compared to $7.5 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, for the same period in 2018. 
The main sources of liquidity for the Company are cash from operations and borrowing capacity. In addition, depending on market conditions, the Company may access the capital markets to strengthen its capital position and to provide additional liquidity for general corporate purposes. 
Overall, PWC declined $2.0 million compared to the prior quarter on flat sales activity. Receivables at March 31, 2019 were $68.1 million compared to $66.3 million at the end of 2018. The increase was due to a modest increase in days sales outstanding associated with international receivables due to their regionally higher payment terms. Inventories at March 31, 2019 were $80.6 million, in line with the $80.8 million at December 31, 2018. Payables at March 31, 2019 were $26.0 million, up from $22.5 million at the end of 2018 due to the timing of payments. 
Capital expenditures for the first three months of 2019 were $2.2 million compared to $3.0 million in the first three months of 2018. 
Short-term debt decreased $7.1 million to $11.0 million at March 31, 2019 from $18.1 million at December 31, 2018 due to the strong cash flow from operations, partially offset by the payment of dividends. At the end of the first quarter of 2019, the Company is in a net cash (cash less short-term debt) position of approximately $4.1 million. 
The Company’s financial condition remains strong. In June 2018, the Company amended its May 2012 credit agreement with its primary lender and extended its term until September 2021. The credit agreement includes a $125.0 million line of credit that supports commercial paper (up to $70.0 million) and includes $5.0 million of a Euro line of credit. While the facility is unsecured, there are a number of financial covenants with which the Company must comply, and the Company was in compliance as of March 31, 2019. The Company believes that its operating cash flows, available borrowing capacity, and its ability to raise capital provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, future capital expenditures and the development of new products. The Company continues to take advantage of its local commercial paper market and carefully monitors the current borrowing market. The Company had $121.8 million of unused credit lines available at March 31, 2019. 
