Item 1 Financial Statements
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements.
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements.
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements.
Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements of Badger Meter, Inc. (the "Company") contain all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring accruals except as otherwise discussed) necessary to present fairly the Company’s consolidated condensed financial position at September 30, 2018, results of operations for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, comprehensive income for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and cash flows for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. The results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year.
Warranty and After-Sale Costs
Rights Agreement
The shareholder rights plan that was in effect since February 15, 2008 expired on May 26, 2018 and the Board of Directors decided not to renew the plan.
The Company maintains a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan that covers substantially all U.S. employees who were employed at December 31, 2011. After that date, no further benefits are being accrued in this plan. For the frozen pension plan, benefits are based primarily on years of service and, for certain individuals, levels of compensation. The Company finalized the termination of the pension plan in the third quarter of 2018. In connection with the Company's activities to terminate the plan, lump-sum distributions were made in the second quarter of 2018 to individuals who elected lump sum distributions, including rolling over their accounts or transferring them to a qualified Company plan. In the third quarter of 2018, purchases of annuity contracts were made to settle obligations for the remaining participants. As a result, the Company recorded pre-tax settlement charges of $8.2 million and $11.7 million during the second and third quarters of 2018, respectively.
The Company also maintains supplemental non-qualified plans for certain officers and other key employees, and an Employee Savings and Stock Ownership Plan (“ESSOP”) for the majority of the U.S. employees. 
The Company additionally has a postretirement healthcare benefit plan that provides medical benefits for certain U.S. retirees and eligible dependents hired prior to November 1, 2004. Employees are eligible to receive postretirement healthcare benefits upon meeting certain age and service requirements. No employees hired after October 31, 2004 are eligible to receive these benefits. This plan requires employee contributions to offset benefit costs.
The Company disclosed in its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 that it was not required to make a minimum contribution to the defined benefit pension plan for the 2018 calendar year. The Company made net payments of $1.6 million and $1.3 million in the second and third quarter of 2018, respectively, related to the 2017 plan year. No additional contributions will be required during 2018 as the pension plan termination was finalized in the third quarter of 2018. 
 The Company also disclosed in its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 that it estimated it would pay $0.4 million in other postretirement benefits in 2018 based on actuarial estimates. As of September 30, 2018, $234,000 of such benefits have been paid. The Company continues to believe that its estimated payments for the full year are reasonable. However, such estimates contain inherent uncertainties because cash payments can vary significantly depending on the timing of postretirement medical claims and the collection of the retirees’ portion of certain costs. Note that the amount of benefits paid in calendar year 2018 will not impact the expense for postretirement benefits for 2018.
Note 4 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
On April 2, 2018, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of Innovative Metering Solutions, Inc. ("IMS") of Odessa, Florida, which was one of the Company's distributors serving Florida. 
The total purchase consideration was approximately $12.0 million, which included $7.7 million in cash, a $0.3 million working capital adjustment, a balance sheet holdback of $0.7 million and settlement of $3.3 million of pre-existing Company receivables. The working capital adjustment was settled in the second quarter of 2018 and the balance sheet holdback is recorded in payables and other current liabilities on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as it is anticipated to be paid in the next twelve months. The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price at June 30, 2018 included $3.8 million of receivables, $0.8 million of inventories, $0.1 million of machinery and equipment, $3.6 million of intangibles and $3.7 million of goodwill. The intangible assets acquired are customer relationships with an estimated average useful life of 10 years. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired was based upon the estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. As of September 30, 2018, the Company had not completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired.
The total purchase consideration for the Carolina Meter assets was $6.2 million, which included $2.0 million in cash and settlement of $4.2 million of pre-existing Company receivables. The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price at December 31, 2017 included $0.6 million of receivables, $0.3 million of inventories, $3.3 million of intangibles and $2.0 million of goodwill. The intangible assets acquired are primarily customer relationships with an estimated average useful life of 12 years. As of September 30, 2018, the Company had not completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired.
The purchase price was approximately $23.2 million in cash, plus a small working capital adjustment. The purchase price included $5.0 million of contingent payments, of which $3.0 million are anticipated to be made in the fourth quarter of 2018 and are recorded in payables and other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at September 30, 2018. Contingent payments of $2.0 million were made in the third quarter of 2018. The Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price included approximately $0.3 million in receivables, $0.6 million of inventories, $0.2 million in property, plant and equipment, $10.9 million of intangibles and $16.1 million of goodwill. The majority of the intangible assets acquired related to ultrasonic technology. The Company also assumed $4.9 million of liabilities as part of the acquisition. As of March 31, 2018, the Company completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with no additional adjustments. 
Note 6 Contingencies, Litigation and Commitments
In the normal course of business, the Company is named in legal proceedings. There are currently no material legal proceedings pending with respect to the Company. 
The Company reevaluates its exposures on a periodic basis and makes adjustments to reserves as appropriate.
The Company applies the accounting standards for fair value measurements and disclosures for its financial assets and financial liabilities. The carrying amounts of cash, receivables and payables in the financial statements approximate their fair values due to the short-term nature of these financial instruments. Short-term debt is comprised of notes payable drawn against the Company's lines of credit and commercial paper. Because of its short-term nature, the carrying amount of the short-term debt also approximates fair value. Included in other assets are insurance policies on various individuals who were previously employed by the Company. The carrying amounts of these insurance policies approximate their fair value.
In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2018-13 "Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820)," which is designed to improve the effectiveness of disclosures related to fair value measurements. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and early adoption is allowed in any interim reporting periods within those annual reporting periods. The Company is currently assessing the impact that this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements. 
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09 "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718)," which clarifies when a change to terms or conditions of a share-based payment award must be accounted for as a modification. The new guidance requires modification accounting if the vesting condition, fair value or the award classification is not the same both before and after a change to the terms and conditions of the award. The new guidance was adopted on a prospective basis on January 1, 2018. The adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07 "Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715)," which changes the presentation of defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plan expense on the income statement by requiring separation between operating and non-operating expense. Under the ASU, the service cost of net periodic benefit expense is an operating expense that will be reported with similar compensation costs. The non-operating components, which include all other components of net periodic benefit expense, are reported outside of operating income. The ASU also stipulates that only the service cost component of pension and postretirement (benefits) costs is eligible for capitalization. The ASU was adopted by the Company on January 1, 2018. Application was done retrospectively for the presentation of the components of these (benefits) costs. In the Consolidated Statements of Operations, the Company previously recorded service and other (benefits) costs in operating cost and expense accounts along with compensation costs. The adoption of the standard resulted in reclassification of those (benefits) costs to the other pension and postretirement (benefits) costs line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Adoption of the standard 
increased operating earnings for 2018 by $11.8 and $19.8 million in the three- and nine-month periods ending September 30, 2018. In the three-month period ending September 30, 2017 operating earnings were decreased by $0.1 million. In the nine-month period ending September 30, 2017 operating earnings were increased by $0.2 million. A corresponding amount was reclassified to other pension and postretirement (benefits) costs for each of these periods. The specific net periodic benefit components are disclosed in Note 3 "Employee Benefit Plans."
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04 "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350)." The update requires
a single-step quantitative test to measure potential impairment based on the excess of a reporting unit's carrying amount over its fair value. A qualitative assessment can still be completed first for an entity to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary. The ASU is effective on a prospective basis for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods thereafter. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of ASU 2017-04 will have an impact.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15 "Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230)," which clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and payments in the statement of cash flows. This ASU was effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those annual reporting periods. The adoption of this ASU did not have a significant impact on the categorization of operating, investing and financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 "Leases (Topic 842)," which requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheets. Lessees initially recognize a lease liability (measured at the present value of the lease payments over the lease term) and a right-of-use ("ROU") asset (measured at the lease liability amount, adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives received and the lessee's initial direct costs). Lessees can make an accounting policy election not to recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for leases with a lease term of 12 months or less as long as the leases do not include options to purchase the underlying assets that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise. For lessors, the guidance modifies the classification criteria and the accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases. The standard includes the use of a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements. Full retrospective application is prohibited. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-11 "Targeted Improvements (Topic 842)." This ASU provides for an optional method of transition which allows companies to adopt the new leasing standard with a cumulative-effect adjustment to reinvested earnings. Under this transition method, comparative periods would continue to be reported in accordance with the existing lease guidance under ASC 840 "Leases". The Company plans to adopt the ASU with this optional transition methodology beginning on the effective date of January 1, 2019. The Company expects that upon adoption the consolidated balance sheet will increase for the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities for operating leases. The Company is currently making decisions regarding all of the available practical expedients for transition and is evaluating the impact that the adoption of this guidance will have on its financial condition, results of operations and the presentation of its consolidated financial statements.
Note 11 Revenue Recognition
Adoption of ASU 2014-09 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)"
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not completed or substantially complete as of January 1, 2018. Results for the reporting period beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the Company's historic accounting under Topic 605 "Revenue Recognition". The Company recorded a net reduction to opening retained earnings of $0.1 million as of January 1, 2018 as a result of the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606. The impact to revenues as a result of applying Topic 606 for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 were not material. 
Contracts with Customers
The balance of contract assets was immaterial as the Company did not have a significant amount of uninvoiced receivables in the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 
The amount of revenue recognized in the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 that was included in the opening contract liability balance was $0.3 million and $0.9 million, respectively. The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract liabilities was the result of a timing difference between the Company's performance and the customers' prepayments. The increased receivables balance was due to higher sales at the end of the third quarter of 2018 compared to the fourth quarter of 2017, receivables balances are generally lower at year-end than at other times of the year.
Performance Obligations
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer, and is the unit of measurement in Topic 606. At contract inception, the Company assesses the products and services promised in its contracts with customers. The Company then identifies performance obligations to transfer distinct products or services to the customer. In order to identify performance obligations, the Company considers all of the products or services promised in the contract regardless of whether they are explicitly stated or are implied by customary business practices.
The Company's performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time or over time as work progresses. Revenue from products and services transferred to customers at a single point in time accounted for 96.9% and 97.2% of net sales for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively. The majority of the Company's revenue recognized at a point in time is for the sale of municipal and flow instrumentation products. Revenue from these contracts is recognized when the customer is able to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the benefits from the product which generally coincides with title transfer during the shipping process.
 Revenue from services transferred to customers over time accounted for 3.1% and 2.8% of sales of net sales for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively. The majority of the Company's revenue that is recognized over time relates to the BEACON AMA software as a service.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had certain contracts where there were unsatisfied performance obligations. For contracts recorded as long-term liabilities, $11.6 million was the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that were unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied as of the end of the reporting period. The Company estimates that revenue recognized from satisfying those performance obligations will be approximately $0.6 million for the remainder of 2018, $2.6 million in each year from 2019 through 2022 and $0.6 million in 2023.
Significant Judgments
The Company records revenue for BEACON AMA services over time as the customer benefits from the data that is provided through the Company's software. Control of an asset is therefore transferred to the customer over time, and the Company will recognize revenue for BEACON AMA services as service units are used by the customer. 
The Company also has contracts that include both the sale and installation of flow meters as performance obligations. In those cases, the Company records revenue for installed flow meters at the point in time when the flow meters have been accepted by the customer. The customer cannot control the use of and obtain substantially all of the benefits from the equipment until the customer has accepted the installed product. Therefore, for both the flow meter and the related installation, the Company has concluded that control is transferred to the customer upon customer acceptance of the installed flow meter. In addition, the Company has a variety of ancillary revenue streams which are minor. The types and composition of the Company's revenue streams did not materially change during the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018.
Transaction Price Allocation
Contract Costs
