Item 1 Financial Statements 
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets 
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements. 
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations 
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements. 
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income 
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements. 
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements. 
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 
See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements. 
Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements 
Warranty and After-Sale Costs 
Historically, the Company maintained a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan that covered substantially all U.S. employees who were employed on December 31, 2011. After that date, no further benefits were accrued in this plan. For the frozen pension plan, benefits were based primarily on years of service and, for certain individuals, levels of compensation. In 2018, the Company completed the termination of the non-contributory defined benefit pension plan. 
The Company maintains supplemental non-qualified plans for certain officers and other key employees, and an Employee Savings and Stock Ownership Plan for the majority of the U.S. employees. 
The Company additionally has a postretirement healthcare benefit plan that provides medical benefits for certain U.S. retirees and eligible dependents hired prior to November 1, 2004. Employees are eligible to receive postretirement healthcare benefits upon meeting certain age and service requirements. No employees hired after October 31, 2004 are eligible to receive these benefits. This plan requires employee contributions to offset benefit costs. 
Note 4 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
This accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component is included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost in Note 3 “Employee Benefit Plans” 
This accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component resulted from an international pension plan settlement. 
These accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) components are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost in Note 3 “Employee Benefit Plans” 
The total purchase consideration was approximately $12.0 million, which included $7.7 million in cash, a $0.3 million working capital adjustment, a balance sheet holdback of $0.7 million and settlement of $3.3 million of pre-existing Company receivables. The working capital adjustment was settled in the second quarter of 2018 and the balance sheet holdback was paid in the second quarter of 2019. The Company's allocation of the purchase price at March 31, 2019 included $3.8 million of receivables, $0.8 million of inventories, $0.1 million of machinery and equipment, $3.6 million of intangibles and $3.7 million of goodwill. The intangible assets acquired are customer relationships with an estimated average useful life of 10 years. The allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired was based upon the estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had completed its analysis for estimating the fair value of the assets acquired with no additional adjustments.  
In the first quarter of 2019, the Company made a contingent payment of $1.0 million related to the May 1, 2017 acquisition of 100% of the outstanding common stock of D-Flow Technology AB (“D-Flow”). There is an additional $2.0 million of contingent payments related to the D-Flow acquisition that is anticipated to be made in the next twelve months which is recorded in payables on the Company’s Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet at September 30, 2019. 
Note 6 Contingencies, Litigation and Commitments 
In the normal course of business, the Company is named in legal proceedings. There are currently no material legal proceedings pending with respect to the Company. 
The Company reevaluates its exposures on a periodic basis and makes adjustments to reserves as appropriate. 
In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2018-14 “Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20),” which modifies the annual disclosure requirements for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. This ASU, as modified, added and deleted specific disclosures in an effort to improve the usefulness for financial statement users while also reducing unnecessary costs for companies. The ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2020 with early adoption being permitted in any interim reporting period within the annual reporting period. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adopting ASU No. 2018-14. 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13 “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820),” which is designed to improve the effectiveness of disclosures related to fair value measurements. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and early adoption is allowed in any interim reporting period within the annual reporting period. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adopting ASU No. 2018-13. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04 “Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350).” The update requires a single-step quantitative test to measure potential impairment based on the excess of a reporting unit's carrying amount over its fair value. A qualitative assessment can still be completed first for an entity to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary. The ASU is effective on a prospective basis for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods thereafter. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company adopted ASU No. 2017-04 on January 1, 2019. The adoption of this standard did not have any impact on the Company’s financial statements.  
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13 “Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326),” which amends the accounting for credit losses on purchased financial assets and available-for-sale debt securities with credit deterioration. This ASU requires the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial assets, including accounts receivables, held at the reporting date based upon current conditions, historical experience and reasonable forecasts. This ASU is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and early adoption is allowed in any interim reporting period within the annual reporting period. The Company does not anticipate that ASU No. 2016-13 will have a material impact upon adoption. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02 “Leases (Topic 842),” which requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheets. Lessees initially recognize a lease liability (measured at the present value of the lease payments over the lease term) and a right-of-use asset (measured at the lease liability amount, adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives received and the lessee's initial direct costs). Lessees can make an accounting policy election not to recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for leases with a lease term of 12 months or less as long as the leases do not include options to purchase the underlying assets that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise. The standard includes the use of a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements. Full retrospective application is prohibited. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-11 “Targeted Improvements (Topic 842).” This ASU provides for an optional method of transition which allows companies to adopt the new leasing standard with a cumulative effect adjustment to reinvested earnings. The Company adopted the new leasing standard with the optional transition methodology as of January 1, 2019. For a complete discussion of the adoption of ASU No. 2016-02 and ASU No. 2018-11, see Note 12 “Leases” in the Unaudited Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. 
Note 11 Revenue Recognition 
The Company performs its obligations under a contract by shipping products or performing services in exchange for consideration. The Company typically invoices its customers as soon as control of an asset is transferred and a receivable to the Company is established. The Company, however, recognizes a contract liability when a customer prepays for goods or services and the Company has not transferred control of the goods or services. 
The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract liabilities was the result of a timing difference between the Company's performance and the customers' prepayments. 
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer, and is the unit of measurement in Topic 606. At contract inception, the Company assesses the products and services promised in its contracts with customers. The Company then identifies performance obligations to transfer distinct products or services to the customer. In order to identify performance obligations, the Company considers all of the products or services promised in the contract regardless of whether they are explicitly stated or are implied by customary business practices. 
Revenue from services transferred to customers over time accounted for 3.6% and 3.1% of net sales for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Revenue from services transferred to customers over time accounted for 3.6% and 2.8% of net sales for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The majority of the Company's revenue that is recognized over time relates to the BEACON® AMA software as a service, but also includes training, installation and other revenues. 
On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU No. 2016-02 and ASU No. 2018-11 using the optional transition method. Under this transition method, comparative periods will continue to be reported in accordance with prior lease guidance under ASC 840 Leases. The Company has elected certain practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which, among other things, allows the Company to carry forward historical lease classifications.  
