fls.txt



item1.txt
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2018 there were 30,000 shares totaling $2.2 million of share repurchases that were not settled until April 2018.
This threshold has been achieved and will be paid out in the subsequent quarter.
As of June 30, 2018 there is $2.6 million included in other long-term assets of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Under legacy US GAAP 340-20, direct response advertising was eligible for capitalization if certain conditions were met.
During the first six months of 2017 reported sales and marketing expenses included $2.0 million of amortization of certain direct-response advertising costs associated with our medical education services, which have been capitalized in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 340.
Under the new guidance Subtopic 340-40, the Company's expense decreased by $497 thousand during the first six months of 2018 from what would have been recorded under legacy US GAAP 340-20.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition—In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("Topic 606").
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, Principal Versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross Versus Net), which amends the principal-versus-agent implementation guidance and in April 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, which amends the guidance in those areas in the new revenue recognition standard.
Delivery of the various contractual obligations typically occurs over periods of less than eighteen months.
These arrangements generally do not have refund provisions or have very limited refund terms.


item2.txt
As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements—This Form 10-Q and certain information incorporated herein by reference contains forward-looking statements and information within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You may obtain our SEC filings at our website, www.ebix.com under the “Investor Information” section, or over the Internet at the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.
Ebix is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
EbixCash, through its travel portal Via.com, is also one of Southeast Asia’s leading travel exchanges with over 110,000 distribution outlets and 8,000 corporate clients processing over 24.5 million transactions every year.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
International revenue accounted for 61.2% and 39.5% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Currently they are reported under Exchange channel, but this is subject to change based on the conclusions of our evaluations.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018 our total operating revenues increased $37.2 million or 43%, to $124.6 million as compared to $87.4 million during the second quarter of 2017.
The year-over-year revenues primarily increased as a result of the Company's acquisitions of Centrum, Smartclass, Via and Ebix Money.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.


item3.txt
However, the Company has operations in Australia, India (specifically EbixCash), New Zealand, Great Britain, Canada, Brazil, Dubai, Singapore, Philippines, Indonesia, and United Arab Emirates where we conduct transactions in the local currencies of each of these locations.


item4.txt



part2.txt



