Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2018 there were 30,000 shares totaling $2.2 million of share repurchases that were not settled until April 2018.
Under legacy US GAAP 340-20, direct response advertising was eligible for capitalization if certain conditions were met.
Effective January 1, 2018 Subtopic 340-40 replaced that guidance to require the costs of direct-response advertising to be expensed as they are incurred or the first time the advertising takes place.
The Company recorded a one-time $1.9 million adjustment to retained earnings on January 1, 2018 and is expensing all future costs from this date forward.
Under the new guidance Subtopic 340-40, the Company's expense increased by $217 thousand during the first three months of 2018 from what would have been recorded under legacy US GAAP 340-20.
A financial instrument's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
During 2017, certain of the Company's contingent earn out liabilities were adjusted because of changes to anticipated future revenues from these acquired businesses, or as a result of finalizing purchase price allocations that were previously provisional.
Revenue Recognition—In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).You may obtain our SEC filings at our website, www.ebix.com under the “Investor Information” section, or over the Internet at the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.
as well as remittance and related services, including travel, from our new financial exchange.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the classification of the 2017 acquisitions that collectively make up the EbixCash Financial Exchanges, refer to Part I, Item I Business in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Currently they are reported under Exchange channel, but is subject to change based on the conclusions of our evaluations.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 the Company's reported total operating revenues increased by $29.1 million or 37% to $108.2 million as compared to $79.1 million during the same period in 2017.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that we file and submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.