fls.txt



item1.txt
Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries As of September 30, 2018 the $18.3 million of consideration for the Miles acquisition was included in other current liabilities of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as it was not funded until October 2018.
As of September 30, 2018 there is $2.5 million included in other long-term assets of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Under legacy US GAAP 340-20, direct response advertising was eligible for capitalization if certain conditions were met.
During the first nine months of 2017 reported sales and marketing expenses included $3.0 million of amortization of certain direct-response advertising costs associated with our medical education services, which have been capitalized in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 340.
The Company was required to recognize a cumulative effective change to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption of the standard.
Under the new guidance Subtopic 340-40, the Company's expense decreased by $625 thousand during the first nine months of 2018 from what would have been recorded under legacy US GAAP 340-20.
•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.
•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments.
These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary.
As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3.
The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition—In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("Topic 606").
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, Principal Versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross Versus Net), which amends the principal-versus-agent implementation guidance and in April 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, which amends the guidance in those areas in the new revenue recognition standard.
Delivery of the various contractual obligations typically occurs over periods of less than eighteen months.
These arrangements generally do not have refund provisions or have very limited refund terms.
Software development arrangements involving significant customization, modification or production are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate technical accounting guidance issued by FASB using the percentage-of-completion method.


item2.txt
As used herein, the terms “Ebix,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Ebix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Ebix, Inc.
You may obtain our SEC filings at our website, www.ebix.com under the “Investor Information” section, or over the Internet at the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.
Ebix is a leading international supplier of on-demand infrastructure exchanges to the insurance, financial, and healthcare industries.
EbixCash, through its travel portal Via.com, is also one of Southeast Asia’s leading travel exchanges with over 110,000 distribution outlets and 8,000 corporate clients processing over 24.5 million transactions every year.
Ebix strives to work collaboratively with clients to develop innovative technology strategies and solutions that address specific business challenges and requirements.
Ebix combines the newest technologies with its capabilities in consulting, systems design and integration, IT and business process outsourcing, applications software, and web and application hosting to meet the individual needs of organizations.
In these operating offices, Ebix employs insurance and technology professionals who provide products, services, support and consultancy to thousands of customers across six continents.
Currently they are reported under Exchange channel, but this is subject to change based on the conclusions of our evaluations.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 our total operating revenues increased $35.8 million or 39%, to $128.6 million as compared to $92.8 million during the third quarter of 2017.
•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.
increased $2.5 million or 29% to $11.0 million during the third quarter of 2018 as compared to $8.5 million during the third quarter of 2017.


item3.txt
However, the Company has operations in Australia, India (specifically EbixCash), New Zealand, Great Britain, Canada, Brazil, Singapore, Philippines, Indonesia, and United Arab Emirates where we conduct transactions in the local currencies of each of these locations.


item4.txt



part2.txt



