Item 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures



We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that we file and submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. Disclosure controls also are designed to reasonably assure that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Disclosure controls include components of internal control over financial reporting, which consists of control processes designated to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.



We monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis our disclosure controls and procedures in order to improve their overall effectiveness. In the course of these evaluations, we modify and refine our internal processes and controls as conditions warrant.



Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our “disclosure controls and procedures” (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act) as of June 30, 2019. Based on this evaluation the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



Item 4: MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 



Not applicable.



Item 5: OTHER INFORMATION



None.



Item 6: EXHIBITS



The exhibits filed herewith or incorporated by reference herein are listed in the Exhibit Index attached hereto.



EXHIBITS INDEX









SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





