Item 1: CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income









See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.



Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income









See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.



Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets









Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity











See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.



Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows









See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.





As of December 31, 2018 there were 200,000 shares totaling $8.8 million of share repurchases that were not settled until January 2019.



 During the three months ended March 31, 2019 there were 351 shares, totaling $21 thousand, used to satisfy exercise costs and the recipients' income tax obligations related to stock options exercised and restricted stock vesting. 



Ebix, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements













Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



Basis of Presentation—The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and these notes have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") with the effect of inter-company balances and transactions eliminated. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and SEC rules have been condensed or omitted as permitted by and pursuant to those rules and regulations, although the Company believes that the disclosures made are adequate to make the information not misleading. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring items) necessary to fairly present the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated results of operations and cash flows. Operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for future quarters or the full year of 2019. The condensed consolidated December 31, 2018 balance sheet included in this interim period filing has been derived from the audited financial statements at that date, but does not necessarily include all of the information and related notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. These condensed interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.



Reclassification— Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to be consistent with current year presentation within our financial statements. 



Restricted Cash- The carrying value of our restricted cash was $29.7 million and $4.0 million at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The March 31, 2019 balance primarily consists of $21.3 million funds in an escrow account to acquire the remaining 25.16% publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares pending the lapse of a time bound public offer. Additionally in connection with a 2016 acquisition, there is upfront cash consideration and possible future contingent earn-out payments held in an escrow account contingent upon the acquired business achieving the minimum specified annual net revenue thresholds, which if not achieved would result in said funds being returned to Ebix. The Company also holds fixed deposits pledged with banks for issuance of bank guarantees and letters of credit related to India operations.







 Advertising—Advertising costs amounted to $3.6 million and $1.5 million in the first three months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and are included in sales and marketing expenses in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 





•Level 1 Inputs - Unadjusted quoted prices available in active markets for identical investments to the reporting entity at the measurement date.



•Level 2 Inputs - Other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs, which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.



•Level 3 Inputs - Unobservable inputs, which are used to the extent that observable inputs are not available, and used in situations where there is little or no market activity for the asset or liability and wherein the reporting entity makes estimates and assumptions related to the pricing of the asset or liability including assumptions regarding risk.



 A financial instrument's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.





•Short-term investments (commercial bank certificates of deposits and mutual funds), for which the fair values are measured as a Level 1 instrument.



•Contingent accrued earn-out business acquisition consideration liabilities for which fair values are measured as Level 3 instruments. These contingent consideration liabilities were recorded at fair value on the acquisition date and are re-measured quarterly based on the then assessed fair value and adjusted if necessary. The increases or decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration can result from changes in anticipated revenue levels and changes in assumed discount periods and rates. As the fair value measure is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, they are categorized as Level 3.















Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair Value Measurements









Sensitivity to Changes in Significant Unobservable Inputs



As presented in the table above, the significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of contingent consideration related to business acquisitions are projected revenue forecasts as developed by the relevant members of Company's management team and the probability of achievement of those revenue forecasts. Significant increases (decreases) in these unobservable inputs in isolation would result in a significantly higher (lower) fair value measurement. The Company applies these terms in its calculation and determination of the fair value of contingent earn out liabilities for purchased businesses as part of the related valuation and purchase price allocation exercise for the corresponding acquired assets and liabilities. During 2018 and 2019, certain of the Company's contingent earn out liabilities were adjusted because of changes to anticipated future revenues from these acquired businesses, or as a result of finalizing purchase price allocations that were previously provisional.



Revenue Recognition—The Company derives its revenues primarily from subscription and transaction fees pertaining to services delivered over our exchanges or from our ASP platforms, fees for risk compliance solution services, and fees for software development projects including associated fees for consulting, implementation, training, and project management provided to customers with installed systems and applications. Sales and value-added taxes are not included in revenues, but rather are recorded as a liability until the taxes assessed are remitted to the respective taxing authorities.



Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.





• identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer;



• identification of the performance obligations in the contract;



• determination of the transaction price;



• allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and



• recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.



For arrangements that include multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates consideration based on their relative fair values.These types of arrangements include obligations pertaining to software licenses, system set-up, and professional services associated with product customization or modification. Delivery of the various contractual obligations typically occurs over periods of less than eighteen months. These arrangements generally do not have refund provisions or have very limited refund terms. 



For arrangements where control is transferred over time, such as software development arrangements involving significant customization, modification, or production, an input or output method is applied that represents a faithful depiction of the progress towards completion of the performance obligation. For arrangements that include variable consideration, the Company assesses whether any amounts should be constrained. 



Financial exchange revenue consists largely of transaction-based fees and fees from corporate and retail gift vouchers. The transaction-based fees are primarily based on a percentage of payment value processed for solutions such as retail and corporate payments, domestic money transfers, and general purpose reloadable cards. Transaction-based fees are recognized at the completion of the transaction. Gift voucher revenue is recognized at full purchase value at time of sale with the corresponding cost of vouchers recorded under direct expenses. The substantial majority of the financial exchange revenue results from single performance obligation transactions.



 Disaggregation of Revenue









Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract



The Company capitalizes certain costs in order to maintain the ability to obtain and fulfill new contracts and contract renewals. These costs are primarily related to the setup and customization of our SaaS based platforms and such costs are amortized over the benefit period. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had $832 thousand of contract costs in “Other current assets” and $1.3 million in “Other Assets” on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.





Contract Liabilities



The Company records contract liabilities when it receives payments or invoices in advance of the performance of services. A significant portion of this balance relates to contracts where the customer has paid in advance for the use of our SaaS platforms over a specified period of time. This portion is recognized as the related performance obligation is fulfilled (generally less than one year). The remaining portion of the contract liabilities balance consists primarily of customer-specific customizations that are not distinct from related performance obligations that transfer over time. This portion is recognized over the expected useful life of the customizations.





Accounts Receivable and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts—Reported accounts receivable include $131.2 million of trade receivables stated at invoice billed amounts and $31.0 million of unbilled receivables (net of the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts receivable in the amount of $6.6 million). The unbilled receivables pertain to certain projects for which the timing of billing is tied to contractual milestones. The Company adheres to such contractually stated performance milestones and accordingly issues invoices to customers as per contract billing schedules. Approximately $8.0 million of contract liabilities is included in billed accounts receivable at March 31, 2019. During the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018 the Company recognized and recorded bad debt expense in the amount of $134 thousand and $1.0 million, respectively. Accounts receivable are written off against the allowance account when the Company has exhausted all reasonable collection efforts. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, $484 thousand and $40 thousand, respectively, of accounts receivable, which had been specifically reserved for in prior periods, were written off. 



Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets—Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the identifiable net assets from the businesses that we acquire. In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance, goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurred or circumstances change that would indicate that fair value of a reporting unit decreased below its carrying value. Potential impairment indicators include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, customer retention and the sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business. The Company applies the technical accounting guidance concerning goodwill impairment evaluation whereby the Company first assesses certain qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of any of our reporting units was less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events and circumstances, we were to determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we would perform the two-step quantitative impairment testing described further below.



The aforementioned two-step quantitative testing process involves comparing the reporting unit carrying values to their respective fair values; we determine fair value of our reporting units by applying the discounted cash flow method using the present value of future estimated net cash flows. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then no further testing is required. However, if a reporting unit’s fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeded its implied value. We perform our annual goodwill impairment evaluation and testing as of September 30 each year or when events or circumstances dictate more frequently.



Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and the year ended December 31, 2018 are reflected in the following table.





 Capitalized Software Development Costs—In accordance with the relevant FASB accounting guidance regarding the development of software to be sold, leased, or marketed, the Company expenses such costs as they are incurred until technological feasibility has been established, at and after which time those costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Costs incurred to enhance our software products, after general market release of the services using the products, are expensed in the period they are incurred.











Amortization expense recognized in connection with acquired intangible assets was $3.0 million and $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.



Foreign Currency Translation—The functional currency for the Company's foreign subsidiaries in Dubai and Singapore is the U.S. dollar because the intellectual property research and development activities provided by its Dubai and Singapore subsidiaries, and the product development and information technology enabled services activities for the insurance industry provided by its India subsidiary, both in support of the Company's operating divisions across the world, are transacted in U.S. dollars.



The functional currency of the Company's other foreign subsidiaries is the local currency of the country in which the subsidiary operates. The assets and liabilities of these foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet dates. Income and expense accounts are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the period. Gains and losses resulting from translation adjustments are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, and are included in the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses that are derived from transactions denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary's functional currency are included in the determination of net income.



Income Taxes—Deferred income taxes are recorded to reflect the estimated future tax effects of differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets, liabilities, operating losses, and tax credit carry forwards using the tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. Valuation allowances, if any, are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount management considers more likely than not to be realized. Such valuation allowances are recorded for the portion of the deferred tax assets that are not expected to be realized based on the levels of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the periods in which the temporary differences will be deductible.



The Company also applies the relevant FASB accounting guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes positions. This guidance clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. In this regard we recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position.





In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement. ASU 2018-13 is intended to improve the effectiveness of ASC 820’s disclosure requirements. The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that fiscal year. The Company has yet to assess the impact that the adoption of this ASU will have on Ebix's consolidated income statement and balance sheet. 



In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2018-07 is intended to reduce cost and complexity and to improve financial reporting for share-based payments to nonemployees. The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. The adoption of ASU 2018-07 did not impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.





Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. The ASU provides that the stranded tax effects from the Tax Act in accumulated other comprehensive loss may be reclassified to retained earnings. The amendments in this ASU are effective for all entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of ASU 2018-02 did not impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. To simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill, the FASB eliminated Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. In computing the implied fair value of goodwill under Step 2, an entity had to perform procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities (including unrecognized assets and liabilities). Instead, under the amendments in this ASU, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. A public business entity filer should adopt the amendments in this ASU for its annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company has yet to assess the impact that the adoption of this ASU will have on Ebix's consolidated income statement and balance sheet.



In January 2017 the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805) Clarifying the Definition of a Business which amended the existing FASB ASC. The standard provides additional guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. The definition of a business affects many areas of accounting, including acquisitions, disposals, goodwill, and consolidation. ASU 2017-01 is effective for fiscal 2019 with early adoption permitted. The adoption of ASU 2018-01 did not impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.











 The Company seeks to execute accretive business acquisitions (which primarily targets businesses that are complementary to Ebix's existing products and services), in combination with organic growth initiatives, as part of its comprehensive business growth and expansion strategy. 





Effective January 1, 2019 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire the assets of India based Essel Forex Limited, for approximately $7.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $721 thousand based on earned revenues. Ebix funded the entire transaction in cash, using its internal cash reserves. Essel Forex has been one of the five largest Foreign exchange providers in India with a wide spectrum of related products including sales of all major Currencies, travelers’ checks, demand drafts, remittances, money transfers and prepaid cards primarily for the corporate clients. Besides being a foreign exchange business partner to leading banks such as ICICI, Axis, Indus Ind, Yes and HDFC Bank, Essel Forex has been associated with Western Union and MoneyGram for inward money transfers. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction. The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $721 thousand as of March 31, 2019.



Effective January 1, 2019, Ebix acquired an 80% controlling stake in India based Zillious Solutions Private Limited for $10.1 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $2.2 million based on earned revenues. Zillious is an on-demand SaaS travel technology solution, with market leadership in the corporate travel segment in India. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction. The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $2.2 million as of March 31, 2019.





Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire 74.84% controlling stake in India based Weizmann for $63.1 million (the $64.6 million reported on the cash flows from investing activities also includes a decrease in previously reported cash acquired of $1.5 million). Ebix also made a time bound public offer to acquire the remaining 25.16% publicly-held Weizmann Forex shares for approximately $21.1 million to public shareholders. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.



Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Pearl, a provider of a comprehensive range of B2B and B2C travel services, under the brand name ‘Sastiticket’, ranging from domestic and international ticketing, incentives travel, leisure products, luxury holidays, and travel documentation for $3.4 million and has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations, 



which has brought in operational synergies and certain redundancies for the acquired operations . The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.



Effective December 1, 2018, Ebix acquired India based Lawson, a B2B provider of travel services and international ticketing, for $2.7 million and has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations to bring in operational synergies and wider country wide footprint. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.



Effective October 1, 2018, Ebix acquired a 70% stake in India based AHA Taxis, a platform for on-demand inter-city cabs in India for $310 thousand. AHA focuses its attention on Corporate and Consumer inter-city travel primarily with a network of thousands of registered AHA Taxis.



Effective October 1, 2018, Ebix acquired a 67% stake in India based Routier, a marketplace for trucking logistics for $413 thousand.



Effective October 1, 2018, Ebix acquired the assets of India based Business Travels for $1.1 million and same has been integrated with Ebix Travels’ operations to expand the wholesale travel and consolidation business. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.



Effective August 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Miles Software ("Miles"), a provider of on-demand software on wealth and asset management to banks, asset managers and wealth management firms, for approximately $18.3 million, plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $8.3 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition. The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $5.6 million as of March 31, 2019.



Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Leisure Corp ("Leisure") for approximately $2.1 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.



Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Mercury Travels for approximately $13.2 million, with the goal of creating a new travel division to focus on a niche segment of the travel market. Mercury’s Forex business was integrated into EbixCash’s existing CDL Forex exchange business. The valuation and purchase price allocation remains preliminary and will be finalized as soon as practicable but in no event longer than one year from the effective date of this transaction.



Effective July 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based Indus Software Technologies Pvt. Ltd. ("Indus"), a global provider of enterprise lending software solutions to financial institutions, captive auto finance and telecom companies, for approximately $22.9 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $5.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent twenty-four month period following the effective date of the acquisition. The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is $3.3 million as of March 31, 2019.



Effective April 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire India based CentrumDirect Limited ("Centrum"), a leader in India’s foreign exchange and outward remittance markets for approximately $179.5 million. This acquisition was funded June 2018. Centrum was into Ebix’s Financial Exchange EbixCash offering in India and abroad, with key Centrum business executives becoming an integral part of the combined EbixCash senior leadership.



Effective April 1, 2018, Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire a 60% stake in India based Smartclass Educational Services Private Limited ("Smartclass"), a leading e-learning Company engaged in the business of education services, development of education products, and implementation of education solutions for K-12 Schools. Under the terms of the agreement Ebix paid $8.6 million in cash for its stake in Smartclass.







 Consideration paid by the Company for the businesses it purchases is allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based upon their estimated fair values as of the date of the acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. Recognized goodwill pertains to the value of the expected synergies to be derived from combining the operations of the businesses we acquire including the value of the acquired workforce. 



The aggregated unaudited pro forma financial information pertaining to all of the Company's acquisitions that have an impact on the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, which includes the acquisitions of Transcorp (acquired February 2018), Centrum (acquired April 2018), Smartclass (acquired April 2018), Indus (acquired July 2018), Mercury acquired July 2018), Leisure (acquired July 2018), Miles (acquired August 2018), Routier (acquired October 2018), Business Travels (acquired October 2018), Wahh Taxis (acquired October 2018), Pearl (acquired December 2018), Weizmann (acquired December 2018), Zillious (acquired January 2019), and Essel (acquired January 2019) and as presented in the table below is provided for informational purposes only and is not a projection of the Company's expected results of operations for any future period. No effect has been given in this pro forma information for future synergistic benefits that may still be realized as a result of combining these companies or costs that may yet be incurred in integrating their operations. The 2019 and 2018 pro forma financial information below assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2018, whereas the Company's reported financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2019 only include the operating results from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired by Ebix.





During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company's reported total operating revenues increased by $34.7 million or 32% to $142.9 million as compared to $108.2 million during the same period in 2018. Reported revenues were impacted by the continuing weakening in the foreign currencies in which we conduct operations (particularly in India, Australia, Brazil, and Great Britain) as compared to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Specifically, the adverse impact from fluctuations of the exchange rates for the foreign currencies in the countries in which we conduct operations, in the aggregate reduced reported revenues by $(5.0) million for the three months ended March 31, 2019.



 With respect to business acquisitions completed during the years 2019 and 2018 on a pro forma basis, as disclosed in the above pro forma financial information table, combined revenues decreased 7.2% for the three months ending March 31, 2019, respectively, versus the same periods in 2018. The 2019 and 2018 pro forma financial information assumes that all business acquisitions made during this period were made on January 1, 2018, whereas the Company's reported condensed consolidated financial statements for three months ended March 31, 2019 only includes the revenues from these businesses since the effective date that they were acquired or consolidated by Ebix, being February 2018 for Transcorp, April 2018 for Centrum, April 2018 for Smartclass, July 2018 for Indus, July 2018 for Mercury, July 2018 for Leisure, August 2018 for Miles, October 2018 for Routier, October 2018 for Business Travels, October 2018 for Wahh Taxis, December 2018 for Pearl, Weizmann, January 2019 for Zillious (acquired January 2019), and January 2019 for Essel. 





•2019 and 2018 pro forma revenue contains actual revenue of the acquired entities before acquisition date, as reported by the sellers, as well as actual revenue of the acquired entities after acquisition, whereas the reported growth in revenues of the acquired entities after acquisition date are only reflected for the period after their acquisition.



•Revenue billed to existing clients from the cross selling of acquired products has been assigned to the acquired section of our business.



•Any existing products sold to new customers obtained through a newly acquired customer base are assigned to the acquired section of our business.







On November 27, 2018, Ebix entered into the Eighth Amendment to the Regions Secured Credit Facility, dated August 5, 2014, among the Company, Regions Bank (“Regions”) and certain other lenders party thereto (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") to exercise $101.25 million of its aggregate $150 million accordion option, increasing the total Term Loan Commitment to $301.25 million from $250 million, with initial repayments starting December 31, 2018 due in the amount of $3.77 million for the first six quarters and increasing thereafter. The revolving credit facility increased from $400 million to $450 million. The Credit Agreement carries a leverage-based LIBOR related interest rate, which currently stands at approximately 5.0%. The expanded credit facility will continue to be used to fund the Company's future growth and share repurchase initiatives



On April 9, 2018 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Seventh Amendment (the “Seventh Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement increasing the permitted indebtedness in the form of unsecured convertible notes from $250 million to $300 million.



On February 21, 2018,Ebix, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Sixth Amendment (the “Sixth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. The Sixth Amendment amended the Credit Agreement by increasing its existing credit facility from $450 million to $650 million, to assist in funding its growth. The increase in the bank line was the result of many members of the existing bank group expanding their share of the credit facility and the addition of BBVA Compass and Bank of the West to the Banking Syndicate, which diversifies Ebix’s lending group under the credit facility to ten participants. The syndicated bank group now comprises ten leading financial institutions that include Regions Bank, PNC Bank, BMO Harris Bank, BBVA Compass, Fifth Third Bank, KeyBank, Bank of the West, Silicon Valley Bank, Cadence Bank and Trustmark National Bank. Regions Bank continued to lead the banking group while serving as the administrative and collateral agent. PNC Bank and BMO Harris Bank were added as co-syndication agents, BBVA Compass and Fifth Third Bank as co-documentation agent, while Regions Capital Markets, PNC Capital Markets and BMO Harris Bank acted as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners. The new credit facility included; A five-year term loan for $250 million, with initial repayments starting June 30, 2018 due in the amount of $3.13 million for the first eight quarters and increasing thereafter and a five-year revolving credit facility for $400 million. The new credit facility also allows for up to $150 million of incremental facilities.



On November 3, 2017 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fifth Amendment (the “Fifth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement to exercise $50 million of its aggregate $100 million accordion option, increasing the total Term Loan Commitment to $175 million. $20 million of the increase was funded on November 3, 2017 and the remaining $30 



million was to be disbursed upon the satisfaction of certain closing requirements set forth in the Fifth Amendment. Both such disbursements are tied to permitted acquisitions as set forth in the Fifth Amendment.



On November 3, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Fourth Amendment and Waiver (the “Fourth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. The Fourth Amendment waived certain technical defaults related to the failure to give required notice with respect to i) the existence of a subsidiary having intellectual property with an aggregate value above a stipulated amount and ii) the additional investment in a joint venture entity resulting in that entity becoming a subsidiary of the Company for the purpose of the Credit Agreement. In addition to such waiver, the Fourth Amendment also loosened the leverage ratios the Company is required to satisfy in connection with permitted acquisitions and for compliance generally.



On October 19, 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Third Amendment and Waiver (the “Third Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. The Third Amendment waived certain technical defaults related to the Company’s making certain restricted payments in excess of those permitted under the Credit Agreement. In addition to such waiver, the Third Amendment also loosened the limitations on the restricted payment covenant under the Credit Agreement.



On June 17, 2016, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the Second Amendment (the “Second Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. The Second Amendment increases the total credit facility to $400 million from the prior amount of $240 million, and expanded the syndicated bank group to eleven participants by adding seven new participants which include PNC Bank, National Association BMO Harris Bank N.A., Key Bank National Association, HSBC Bank National, Cadence Bank, the Toronto-Dominion Bank (New York Branch), and Trustmark National Bank. The Credit Agreement consisted of a five-year revolving credit component in the amount of $275 million, and a five-year term loan component in the amount of $125 million, with repayments due in the amount $3.13 million due each quarter, starting September 30, 2016. The Credit Agreement also contained an accordion feature, which if exercised and approved by all credit parties, would expand the total borrowing capacity under the syndicated credit facility to $500 million.



At March 31, 2019 the Company's consolidated balance sheet includes $5.5 million of remaining deferred financing costs in connection with this Credit Agreement, which are being amortized as a component of interest expense over the five-year term of the financing agreement. In regards to these deferred financing costs, $3.3 million pertains to the revolving line of credit component of the Credit Agreement, and $2.2 million pertains to the term loan component of the Credit Agreement, of which $575 thousand is netted against the current portion and $1.7 million is netted against the long-term portions of the term loan as reported on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.



At March 31, 2019, the outstanding balance on the revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement was $438.0 million and the facility carried an interest rate of 5.00%. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, $13.5 million of draws were made off of the revolving credit facility. The revolving line of credit balance is included in the long-term liabilities section of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the average and maximum outstanding balances of the revolving line of credit component of the credit facility were $434.4 million and $438.0 million, respectively.



At March 31, 2019, the outstanding balance on the term loan was $287.5 million of which $15.1 million is due within the next twelve months, with $3.77 million payments having been made during the three months ended March 31, 2019. This term loan also carried an interest rate of 5.00% . The current and long-term portions of the term loan are included in the respective current and long-term sections of the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, the amounts of which were $15.1 million and $272.4 million respectively at March 31, 2019. 







filed a Verified Third Amended and Supplemented Class Action and Derivative Complaint (the “Third Amended Complaint”), which, among other things, added certain directors of the Company as defendants. On January 5, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to join an additional plaintiff as co-lead plaintiff in this action (collectively, “Plaintiffs,” and together with all defendants, the “Parties”), which was granted on April 2, 2018.







Upon the effective date of the April SAR Agreement, Mr. Raina received 5,953,975 stock appreciation rights with respect to the Company’s common shares (the “SARs”). Upon an Acquisition Event, each of the SARs entitle Mr. Raina to receive a cash payment from the Company equal to the excess, if any, of the net proceeds per share received in connection with the Acquisition Event over the base price of $7.95 per share. Although the SARs were not granted under the 2010 Plan, the April SAR Agreement incorporates certain provisions of the 2010 Plan, including the provisions requiring equitable adjustment of the number of SARs and the base price in connection with certain corporate events (including stock splits). Under the terms of the April SAR Agreement, Mr. Raina is entitled to receive full payment with respect to the SARs if either (i) he is employed by the Company on the closing date of an Acquisition Event or (ii) has been involuntarily terminated by the Company without cause (as defined in the April SAR Agreement) within the 180-day period immediately preceding an Acquisition Event. All of the SARs are forfeited if Mr. Raina’s employment is terminated for any other reason prior to the closing date of an Acquisition Event.





would be imposed on Mr. Raina in respect of any payments (other than any payments with respect to any Share Grants) made in connection with a change in control of the Company under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code.





On July 17, 2018, following briefing and argument, the Court issued an Order granting in part and denying in part defendants’ motions for summary judgment on all remaining counts of the Fourth Amended Complaint. The Court granted summary judgment as to all defendants on Counts I, IV, V, VI, VII, and X and denied summary judgment as to Counts II and III. The Court granted summary judgment as to certain defendants on Count IX, and granted in part and denied in part Count IX with respect to the Firm Clients. On July 24, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a second supplement to the Fourth Amended Complaint related to certain disclosures issued in connection with the Company’s 2018 annual meeting, which the Court denied at a pretrial conference held on August 15, 2018. On August 9, 2018, following briefing and argument, the Court issued a bench ruling granting in part and denying in part defendants’ motion to dismiss the Supplement. A three-day trial on all remaining claims was held on August 20, 21, and 23, 2018.













The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended SAR Agreement.





The Litigation Settlement includes, among other things, the adoption and entry into the Amended SAR Agreement, as well as certain governance measures set forth in the Settlement Agreement, in each case, effective upon the later of (i) expiration of the period for taking an appeal of the Order, or (ii) final resolution of any such appeal (excluding any appeal from the Order that relates solely to the issue of plaintiffs’ counsels’ application for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses). 



The Settlement contains no admission of wrongdoing or liability, and may not be deemed to be a presumption as to the validity of any claims, causes of action or other issues.



The Company is involved in various other claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate likely disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.



Lease Commitments—See Note 11.





Self-Insurance—For some of the Company’s U.S. employees the Company is self-insured for its health insurance program and has a stop loss policy that limits the individual liability to $120 thousand per person and the aggregate liability to 125% of the expected claims based upon the number of participants and historical claims. As of March 31, 2019, the amount accrued on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet for the self-insured component of the Company’s employee health insurance was $232 thousand. The maximum potential estimated cumulative liability for the annual contract period, which ends in September 2019, was $3.3 million.





The Company recorded net income tax benefit of $1.08 million (4.52%) during the three months ended March 31, 2019 which included gross tax benefit of $4.2 million from certain discrete items related to deferred tax true-up related to tax carrying value of assets versus carrying value as per the books. The income tax expense exclusive of discrete items for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is $3.08 million (12.84%). Our tax expense and effective tax rate has decreased year over year due to recording of one time Transition tax liability last year resulting from the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”). The Company expects its full year effective tax rate to be in the range of 8% to 9%.



 As of March 31, 2019 a liability of $9.3 million for uncertain tax positions is included in other long-term liabilities of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there was 



zero and $30 thousand increase to this liability reserve, respectively. The Company recognizes interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of income tax expense.















Effective October 1, 2018 Ebix acquired a 70% stake in AHA Taxis, a platform for on-demand inter-city cabs in India for $310 thousand. AHA focuses its attention on Corporate and Consumer inter-city travel primarily, with a network of thousands of registered AHA Taxis.



Effective October 1, 2018 Ebix acquired a 67% stake in Routier, a marketplace for trucking logistics for $413 thousand.



Effective April 1, 2018 Ebix entered into an agreement to acquire a 60% stake in India based Smartclass, a leading e-learning Company engaged in the business of education services, development of education products, and implementation of education solutions for K-12 Schools. Under the terms of the agreement, Ebix paid $8.6 million in cash for its stake in Smartclass.



Effective January 2, 2018 Paul Merchants acquired a 10% equity interest in Ebix’s combined international remittance business in India (comprised of YouFirst, Wall Street , Paul Merchants, and Transcorp) for cash consideration of $5.0 million. The consolidation of these acquisitions into Ebix's Financial Exchange operations will bring synergies and reduce certain redundancies to the combined operation. As part of this agreement Ebix retains an irrevocable option to reacquire 10% of the equity interest after one year at a predetermined price which is included in other current liabilities of the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. On January 2, 2019 Ebix, exercised an irrevocable option to reacquire the 10% equity interest previously owned by Paul Merchants in the international remittance business in India for cash consideration of $4.9 million.



Effective April 1, 2017 Ebix entered into a joint venture with India-based Essel Group, while acquiring an 80% stake in ItzCash, India’s leading payment solutions exchange. ItzCash is recognized as a leader in the prepaid cards and bill payments space in India. Under the terms of the agreement, ItzCash was valued at a total enterprise value of approximately $150 million. 



Accordingly, Ebix acquired an 80% stake in ItzCash for $120 million including upfront cash of $76.3 million plus possible future contingent earn-out payments of up to $44.0 million based on earned revenues over the subsequent thirty-six month period following the effective date of the acquisition. The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration is zero as of March 31, 2019.



Effective February 7, 2016 Ebix and Vayam Technologies Ltd ("Vayam") formed a joint venture named Ebix Vayam Limited JV. This joint venture was established to carry out IT projects in the government sector of the country of India and particularly in regards to the implementation of e-governance projects in the areas of education and healthcare. Ebix has a 51% equity interest in the joint venture, and Vayam has a 49% equity interest in the joint venture. Ebix is fully consolidating the operations of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the Vayam minority, non-controlling, interest in the joint venture's net income and equity. 



Effective September 1, 2015 Ebix and IHC formed the joint venture EbixHealth JV. This joint venture was established to promote and market an administrative data exchange for health and pet insurance lines of business nationally. Ebix paid $6.0 million and contributed a license to use certain CurePet software and systems valued by the EbixHealth JV at $2.0 million, for its initial 40% membership interest in the EbixHealth JV. IHC contributed all of its shares in its existing third party administrator operations (IHC Health Solutions, Inc.), valued by the EbixHealth JV at $12.0 million for its 60% membership interest in the EbixHealth JV, and received a special distribution of $6.0 million. Effective July 1, 2016 Ebix and IHC jointly executed a Call Notice agreement, whereby Ebix purchased additional common units in the EbixHealth JV from IHC constituting eleven percent (11%) of the EbixHealth JV for $2.0 million cash which resulted in Ebix holding an aggregate fifty-one percent (51%) of the EbixHealth JV. Commensurate with additional equity stake in the joint venture and a new contemporaneous valuation of the business the Company realized a $1.2 million gain on its previously carried 40% equity interest in the EbixHealth JV. This recognized gain was reflected as a component of other non-operating income in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income. Beginning July 1, 2016 Ebix is fully consolidating the operations of the EbixHealth JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the IHC minority, non-controlling, 49% interest in the joint venture's net income and equity, and thereby reflecting Ebix's net resulting 51% interest in the EbixHealth JV profits or losses. IHC is also a customer of the EbixHealth JV, and during the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018 the EbixHealth JV recognized $767 thousand and $2.3 million, respectively, of revenue from IHC, and as of March 31, 2019 the EbixHealth JV had $442 thousand of accounts receivable from IHC. Furthermore, as a related party, IHC also has been and continues to be a customer of Ebix, and during the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018 the Company recognized $19 thousand and zero revenue from IHC respectively, and as of March 31, 2019 IHC had $38 thousand of accounts receivable with Ebix.





In accordance with the relevant authoritative accounting literature, the Company has capitalized certain software and product related development costs associated with both the Company’s continuing medical education service offerings, the Company’s development of its property and casualty underwriting insurance data exchange platform servicing the London markets, and mobile applications and software enhancements under development for its EbixCash products. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, the Company capitalized $1.7 million and $622 thousand of such development costs. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, a total of $12.9 million and $11.7 million, respectively, of remaining unamortized development costs are reported on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized $596 thousand and $525 thousand, respectively, of amortization expense with regards to these capitalized software development costs, which is included in costs of services provided in the Company’s consolidated income statement. The capitalized continuing medical education product costs are being amortized using a three-year to five-year straight-line methodology and certain continuing medical education products costs are immediately expensed. The capitalized software development costs for the property and casualty underwriting insurance data exchange platform are being amortized over a period of five years.











In February 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This new accounting guidance is intended to improve financial reporting about leasing transactions. The ASU affects all companies and other organizations that lease assets such as real estate, airplanes, and manufacturing equipment. The ASU requires organizations that lease assets referred to as “Lessees” to recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases. An organization is to provide disclosures designed to enable users of financial statements to understand the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. These disclosures include qualitative and quantitative requirements concerning additional information about the amounts recorded in the financial statements. Under the new guidance, a lessee is required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than twelve months. Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease. However, unlike former GAAP which requires only financing leases to be recognized on the balance sheet the new ASU requires both types of leases (i.e., operating and financing) to be recognized on the balance sheet. The FASB lessee accounting model will continue to account for both types of leases. The financing lease will be accounted for in substantially the same manner as capital leases were accounted for under the previous guidance. For operating leases there will have to be the recognition of a lease liability and a lease asset for all such leases greater than one year in term.























The Company leases office space under non-cancelable operating leases with expiration dates ranging through 2029, with various renewal options. Finance leases range from three to five years and are primarily for office equipment. There were multiple assets under various individual finance leases at March 31, 2019 and 2018. Rental expense for office and airport facilities and certain equipment subject to operating leases for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $9.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively.





Credit Risk



The Company is potentially subject to concentrations of credit risk in its accounts receivable. Credit risk is the risk of an



unexpected loss if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations. Although the Company is directly affected by the financial condition of its customers and the loss of or a substantial reduction in orders or the ability to pay from the customer could have a 



material effect on the consolidated financial statements, management does not believe significant credit risks exist at March 31, 2019. The Company had one customer whose accounts receivable balances individually represented 10% or more of the Company’s total accounts receivable.



Major Customer



As previously disclosed in Note 8, effective February 7, 2016 Ebix and Vayam formed a joint venture named Ebix Vayam Limited JV. This joint venture was established to carry out IT projects in the government sector of the country of India and particularly in regards to the implementation of e-governance projects in the areas of education and healthcare. Ebix has a 51% equity interest in the joint venture, and Vayam has a 49% equity interest in the joint venture. Ebix is fully consolidating the operations of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV into the Company's financial statements and separately reporting the Vayam minority, non-controlling, interest in the joint venture's net income and equity. Vayam is also a customer of the Ebix Vayam Limited JV, and during the three months ending March 31, 2019 and 2018 the Ebix Vayam Limited JV recognized $87 thousand and $6.2 million of revenue from Vayam, respectively, and as of March 31, 2019 the Ebix Vayam Limited JV had $34.1 million of accounts receivable with Vayam.





Derivative Legal Settlement



On April 5, 2019, the Delaware Court of Chancery entered an Order and Final Judgment (the “Order”) approving the Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement (the “Settlement”), dated January 23, 2019, among Ebix, Inc. (the “Company”), the other 



defendants and the plaintiffs in the litigation captionedIn re Ebix, Inc. Stockholder Litigation, Consol. C.A. No. 8526-VCS (the “Litigation”).





The Settlement Agreement includes, among other things, the adoption and entry into an Amended Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement with respect to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Robin Raina, and the implementation of certain governance measures, in each case, effective upon the later of (i) expiration of the period for taking an appeal of the Order, or (ii) final resolution of any such appeal (excluding any appeal from the Order that relates solely to the issue of plaintiffs’ counsels’ application for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses). 



The Settlement contains no admission of wrongdoing or liability, and may not be deemed to be a presumption as to the validity of any claims, causes of action or other issues.



Acquisitions





Item 1: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS





filed a Verified Second Amended and Supplemented Class Action and Derivative Complaint (the “Second Amended Complaint”). On February 10, 2015, defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the Second Amended Complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part in a Memorandum Opinion and Order issued on January 15, 2016. On October 26, 2016, Plaintiffs filed a Verified Third Amended and Supplemented Class Action and Derivative Complaint (the “Third Amended Complaint”), which, among other things, added certain directors of the Company as defendants. On January 5, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to join an additional plaintiff as co-lead plaintiff in this action (collectively, “Plaintiffs,” and together with all defendants, the “Parties”), which was granted on April 2, 2018.







Upon the effective date of the April SAR Agreement, Mr. Raina received 5,953,975 stock appreciation rights with respect to the Company’s common shares (the “SARs”). Upon an Acquisition Event, each of the SARs entitle Mr. Raina to receive a cash payment from the Company equal to the excess, if any, of the net proceeds per share received in connection with the Acquisition Event over the base price of $7.95 per share. Although the SARs were not granted under the 2010 Plan, the April SAR Agreement incorporates certain provisions of the 2010 Plan, including the provisions requiring equitable adjustment of the number of SARs and the base price in connection with certain corporate events (including stock splits). Under the terms of the April SAR Agreement, Mr. Raina is entitled to receive full payment with respect to the SARs if either (i) he is employed by the Company on the closing date of an Acquisition Event or (ii) has been involuntarily terminated by the Company without cause (as defined in the April SAR Agreement) within the 180-day period immediately preceding an Acquisition Event. All of the SARs are forfeited if Mr. Raina’s employment is terminated for any other reason prior to the closing date of an Acquisition Event.





but generally will follow the terms of the restricted shares or restricted stock units granted to other executives of the Company at or about the time of such Share Grant, but no Share Grant will vest more rapidly than one-third of such Share Grant prior to the first anniversary of the grant date, with the remainder vesting in eight equal quarterly installments following the first anniversary of the grant date. The April SAR Agreement also provides for the Company to make tax gross-up payments for excise taxes that would be imposed on Mr. Raina in respect of any payments (other than any payments with respect to any Share Grants) made in connection with a change in control of the Company under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code.





On July 17, 2018, following briefing and argument, the Court issued an Order granting in part and denying in part defendants’ motions for summary judgment on all remaining counts of the Fourth Amended Complaint. The Court granted summary judgment as to all defendants on Counts I, IV, V, VI, VII, and X and denied summary judgment as to Counts II and III. The Court granted summary judgment as to certain defendants on Count IX, and granted in part and denied in part Count IX with respect to the Firm Clients. On July 24, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a second supplement to the Fourth Amended Complaint related to certain disclosures issued in connection with the Company’s 2018 annual meeting, which the Court denied at a pretrial conference held on August 15, 2018. On August 9, 2018, following briefing and argument, the Court issued a bench ruling granting in part and denying in part defendants’ motion to dismiss the Supplement. A three-day trial on all remaining claims was held on August 20, 21, and 23, 2018.













The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended SAR Agreement.





The Litigation Settlement includes, among other things, the adoption and entry into the Amended SAR Agreement, as well as certain governance measures set forth in the Settlement Agreement, in each case, effective upon the later of (i) expiration of the period for taking an appeal of the Order, or (ii) final resolution of any such appeal (excluding any appeal from the Order that relates solely to the issue of plaintiffs’ counsels’ application for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses). 



The Settlement contains no admission of wrongdoing or liability, and may not be deemed to be a presumption as to the validity of any claims, causes of action or other issues.



The Company is involved in various other claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate likely disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.



Item 1A: RISK FACTORS





