fls.txt
These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “aims,” “estimates” and similar expressions.


item1.txt
However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.


item2.txt
We have reached an agreement with the UK Home Office on terms for the new direction of the UK Emergency Services Network (“ESN”) as well as an agreement on terms to extend the Airwave contract through 2022.
On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation, a provider of advanced end-to-end security and surveillance solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, surveillance cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million.
On March 7, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million.
Net sales were $1.9 billion in the third quarter of 2018, a $217 million, or 13%, increase compared to the third quarter of 2017.
The net sales increase for the third quarter of 2018 included $145 million from acquisitions and $19 million from the adoption of ASC 606 (see Note 1 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by $9 million from unfavorable foreign currency rates.
The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in the Americas and EMEA.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services.
Net interest expense was $59 million in the third quarter of 2018 and $52 million in the third quarter of 2017.
The increase in net interest expense in the third quarter of 2018 as compared to the third quarter of 2017 was a result of increases in outstanding debt issued during 2018.
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $6 million in the third quarter of 2018.
Net sales were $5.1 billion in the first nine months of 2018, a $666 million, or 15%, increase compared to the first nine months of 2017.
The net sales increase for the first nine months of 2018 included $347 million from acquisitions, $58 million from the adoption of ASC 606 (see Note 1 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), and $56 million from favorable foreign currency rates.
Within the Products and Systems Integration segment, Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP and Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in every region.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business, the acquisition of Interexport in Services and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services.
The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by the acquisition of Kodiak Networks in the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and the Software businesses.
Gross margin was $2.4 billion, or 47.0% of net sales, in the first nine months of 2018, compared to $2.1 billion, or 46.4% of net sales, in the first nine months of 2017.
The increase in net interest expense in the first nine months of 2018 as compared to the first nine months of 2017 was a result of increases in outstanding debt.
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $16 million in the first nine months of 2018 compared to $3 million in the first nine months of 2017.
The net gains in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017 were primarily related to the sales of various equity investments.


item3.txt
Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.
Except for historical matters, the matters discussed in this Form 10-Q are forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable federal securities law.


item4.txt
The system also includes the replacement of our current indirect procurement and service contract systems.
We have made appropriate changes to our internal controls over financial reporting as we have implemented the new system.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Item 2.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.


