These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “aims,” “estimates” and similar expressions.The business will be part of both the Products and Systems Integration and Services and Software segments.
On January 7, 2019, we announced that we acquired VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location for $445 million, inclusive of share-based compensation withheld at a fair value of $38 million that will be expensed over an average service period of one year.
The acquisition was settled with $231 million of cash, net of cash acquired, and 1.4 million of shares issued at a fair value of $160 million for a purchase price of $391 million.
We reached an agreement with the U.K. Home Office during the third quarter of 2018 on terms for the new direction of the U.K.
On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million in cash.
On March 7, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc. ("Plant"), the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million in cash.
The Products and Systems Integration segment’s net sales represented 65% of our consolidated net sales in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018.
The Services and Software segment’s net sales represented 35% of our consolidated net sales in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018.
•9% growth in Devices revenue primarily due to the acquisition of Avigilon along with strong demand for land mobile radio ("LMR") in the Americas and EMEA.
•94% growth in Software, driven primarily by revenue from the acquisitions of VaaS, Avigilon, and Plant, and growth in our command center software suite.
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $1 million in the first quarter of 2019 compared to $11 million during the first quarter of 2018.
Included in the $8 million were charges of $12 million related to employee separation costs, partially offset by $4 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.Management believes that these financial instruments should not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts should generally offset gains and losses on the underlying assets, liabilities and transactions.None.Item 1A.
On January 3, 2019, as partial consideration for the acquisition of VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location, we issued 1,802,379 shares of the Company at a fair value of $198 million, inclusive of $38 million related to compensation withheld from the purchase that will be expensed over an average service period of one year, to certain of the former owners of VaaS.