Item 4: Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Our management evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2018.
Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, because of the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting described in our 2017 Form 10-K as filed on February 13, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of September 30, 2018.
A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our prior Form 10-K filing, we identified and reported a material weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting related to our internal controls over ensuring that all revenue recognition criteria are satisfied prior to the recognition of revenue.
We are executing our remediation plan as described fully in our 2017 Form 10-K.
In response to the identified material weakness, our management, with oversight from our audit committee, has dedicated resources to improve our control environment and to remedy the identified material weakness.
We believe that we have designed the appropriate controls to remediate the material weakness and began executing the controls during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
These controls include additional procedures related to the review and approval of terms and conditions of revenue contracts.
However, the Company is required to demonstrate the effectiveness of the new processes for a sufficient period of time.
Therefore, until all remedial actions, including the efforts to test the control activities, are fully completed, the material weakness identified will continue to exist.
We are committed to achieving and maintaining a strong control environment, high ethical standards, and financial reporting integrity and transparency.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
As described above, we have designed and implemented additional controls in connection with our remediation plan.
Other than these additional controls, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2018 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
