Item 2: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Overview
Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation.
We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators.
We also seek to acquire businesses that we believe can help us achieve these objectives.
Trends and Events
The following trends and events during 2018 have had varying effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
Foreign currency
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, and Brazilian real.
Generally, as the U.S. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, our revenues and earnings are negatively impacted as our foreign denominated revenues and earnings are translated into U.S. dollars at a lower rate.
Conversely, as the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, our revenues and earnings are positively impacted.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S.
In addition to the translation impact described above, currency rate fluctuations have an economic impact on our financial results.
As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.
Commodity prices
Our operating results can be affected by changes in prices of commodities, primarily copper and compounds, which are components in some of the products we sell.
Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage.
Conversely, a decrease in commodity prices would result in lower sales revenue but a higher gross profit percentage.
Selling prices of our products are affected by many factors, including end market demand, capacity utilization, overall economic conditions, and commodity prices.
Importantly, however, there is no exact measure of the effect of changing commodity prices, as there are thousands of transactions in any given quarter, each of which has various factors involved in the individual pricing decisions.
Therefore, all references to the effect of copper prices or other commodity prices are estimates.
Channel Inventory
Our operating results also can be affected by the levels of Belden products purchased and held as inventory by our channel partners and customers.
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
Generally, as our channel partners and customers change the level of products they buy from us and hold in their inventory, it impacts our revenues.
Comparisons of our results between periods can be impacted by changes in the levels of channel inventory.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.
Market Growth and Market Share
The markets in which we operate can generally be characterized as highly competitive and highly fragmented, with many players.
We monitor available data regarding market growth, including independent market research reports, publicly available indices, and the financial results of our direct and indirect peer companies, in order to estimate the extent to which our served markets grew or contracted during a particular period.
We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate.
Our strategic goal is to utilize our Market Delivery System to target faster growing geographies, applications, and trends within our end markets, in order to achieve growth that is higher than the general market growth rate.
To the extent that we exceed the market growth rates, we consider it to be the result of capturing market share.
Operating Segments
Effective January 1, 2018, we changed our organizational structure and, as a result, now are reporting two segments.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed.
We have recast the prior period segment information to conform to the change in the composition of these reportable segments.
Acquisitions
We completed the acquisition of Snell Advanced Media (SAM) on February 8, 2018.
The results of SAM have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from the acquisition date and are reported in the Enterprise Solutions segment.
See Note 3.
Long-term Debt
In March 2018, we issued €350.0 million ($431.3 million at issuance) aggregate principal amount of new senior subordinated notes due 2028 at an interest rate of 3.875%.
We used the net proceeds of this offering to repurchase $188.7 million of our outstanding $200.0 million 5.25% senior subordinated notes due 2024 and €143.1 million of our outstanding €200.0 million 5.5% senior subordinated notes due 2023.
We paid approximately $7.1 million of fees related to issuing the 2028 notes, and recognized a $20.0 million loss on debt extinguishment for premiums paid to the bond holders to retire the 2024 and 2023 notes and for the unamortized debt issuance costs that we wrote-off.
See Note 10.
Grass Valley and SAM Integration Program
During the first quarter of 2018, we began a restructuring program to integrate our acquisition of SAM with Grass Valley.
The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired operating facilities and other support functions.
We recognized $9.2 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended April 1, 2018.
The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment.
We expect to incur approximately $41 million of additional severance and restructuring costs for this program, most of which will be incurred by the end of 2018.
We also expect the program to generate approximately $44 million of savings on an annualized basis, which we will start realizing in the second half of 2018.
Industrial Manufacturing Footprint Program
In 2016, we began a program to consolidate our manufacturing footprint.
The manufacturing consolidation will be completed this year.
We recognized $7.5 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended April 1, 2018.
The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions segments, as the manufacturing locations involved in the program serve both platforms.
We expect the program to generate approximately $13 million of savings on an annualized basis, which we began to realize in the third quarter of 2017.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows that are or would be considered material to investors.
Critical Accounting Policies
•We did not change any of our existing critical accounting policies from those listed in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K other than updating our revenue recognition accounting policies for the adoption of ASU 2014-09;
•No existing accounting policies became critical accounting policies because of an increase in the materiality of associated transactions or changes in the circumstances to which associated judgments and estimates relate; and
•There were no significant changes in the manner in which critical accounting policies were applied or in which related judgments and estimates were developed.
Results of Operations
Consolidated Income before Taxes
•The acquisitions of SAM and Thinklogical contributed $28.6 million to the increase in revenues.
•Favorable currency translation resulted in a revenue increase of $17.9 million.
•Higher copper costs contributed $7.5 million to the increase in revenues.
•Higher sales volume resulted in a $6.2 million increase in revenues.
The increase in volume was primarily attributable to strong demand in our Industrial markets.
•The divestiture of our MCS business resulted in a revenue decrease of $6.0 million.
Gross profit increased $8.2 million, or 3.7%, in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017 due to the increases in revenues discussed above, partially offset by increases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; cost of sales for the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value for the SAM acquisition; and amortization of software developments costs during 2018 of $3.5 million, $0.5 million, and $0.2 million, respectively.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $12.3 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017.
Acquisitions contributed $10.0 million to the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses year-over-year.
Increases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs, excluding the impact of acquisitions contributed $2.6 million to the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses year-over-year.
These increases were partially offset by improved productivity.
Research and development expenses increased $2.6 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017.
Acquisitions contributed $3.6 million to the increase over the year ago period, partially offset by $0.6 million for the impact of the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017.
Amortization of intangibles increased $0.7 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017.
This is primarily due to the acquisitions of SAM and Thinklogical, which contributed $5.4 million to the increase over the year ago period.
The impact of acquisitions was partially offset by certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during 2017.
Operating income decreased $7.4 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017 primarily due to the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development, partially offset by the increase in gross profit discussed above.
Net interest expense decreased $6.5 million, or 27.8%, in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017 as a result of our debt transactions during 2017 and 2018.
In July 2017, we issued €450.0 million aggregate principal amount of new senior subordinated notes due 2027 at an interest rate of 3.375%.
We used the net proceeds of this offering and cash on hand to repurchase all of our outstanding $700.0 million 5.5% senior subordinated notes due 2022.
In September 2017, we issued €300.0 million aggregate principal amount of new senior subordinated notes due 2025 at an interest rate of 2.875%.
We used the net proceeds of this offering to repurchase €300.0 million of our outstanding €500.0 million 5.5% senior subordinated notes due 2023.
In March 2018, we issued €350.0 million aggregate principal amount of new senior subordinated notes due 2028 at an interest rate of 3.875%.
We used the net proceeds of this offering to repurchase $188.7 million of our outstanding $200.0 million 5.25% senior subordinated notes due 2024 and €143.1 million of our outstanding €200.0 million 5.5% senior subordinated notes due 2023.
See Note 10.
The loss on debt extinguishment recognized in the first quarter of 2018 represents the premium paid to the bond holders to retire a portion of the 2023 and 2024 notes and the unamortized debt issuance costs written-off.
See Note 10.
Income before taxes decreased $20.8 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017.
This decrease is due to the loss on debt extinguishment and decrease in operating income, partially offset by lower interest expense discussed above.
Income Taxes
- We recognized income tax expense of $1.8 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 as a result of a change in our valuation allowance on foreign tax credits associated with our euro debt refinancing during the quarter.
- We also recognized income tax expense of $0.5 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 as a result of changes in our valuation allowance for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
The amount of this adjustment remains provisional under SAB 118.
On December 22, 2017, the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (the “Act”) was signed into law, making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code.
Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017.
On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (“SAB 118”) was issued to address the application of US GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we obtained additional information affecting the provisional amount initially recorded for the valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credits in 2017.
As a result, we recorded an adjustment to the valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credits.
Additional work is still necessary for a more detailed analysis of all provisional amounts associated with the Act including the remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities, the one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings and the valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credits.
We continue to evaluate the need for a provisional amount regarding the non-deductibility of certain covered employee compensation associated with the amendments to IRC section 162(m).
As of the date of this filing, we reasonably believe no such provision should be recorded.
Any subsequent adjustment to these amounts will be recorded to tax expense in the quarter of 2018 when the analysis is complete.
Our income tax expense and effective tax rate in future periods may be impacted by many factors, including our geographic mix of income and changes in tax laws.
Consolidated Adjusted Revenues and Adjusted EBITDA
•
•The acquisitions of SAM and Thinklogical contributed $30.4 million to the increase in revenues.
•Favorable currency translation resulted in a revenue increase of $17.9 million.
•Higher copper costs contributed $7.5 million to the increase in revenues.
•Higher sales volume resulted in a $6.2 million increase in revenues.
The increase in volume was primarily attributable to strong demand in our Industrial markets.
•The divestiture of our MCS business resulted in a revenue decrease of $6.0 million.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $10.3 million, or 11.1%, in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017 primarily due to the increases in revenues discussed above, partially offset by unfavorable product mix.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
the business based upon its expected ongoing operating structure.
We believe the adjusted measures, accompanied by the disclosure of the costs of these programs, provides valuable insight.
Segment Results of Operations
For additional information regarding our segment measures, see Note 5 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Enterprise Solutions
Enterprise Solutions revenues increased $36.7 million, or 11.7%, in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017.
Acquisitions, favorable currency translation, and rising copper prices contributed $30.5 million, $8.0 million, and $3.5 million to the increase in revenues, respectively.
The increases above were partially offset by decreases in volume of $5.3 million.
The decreases in volume were experienced in our live media production market.
Enterprise Solutions EBITDA increased $7.9 million, or 16.0%, in the three months ended April 1, 2018 compared to the year ago period driven by the revenue growth discussed above and sustainable productivity initiatives.
Accordingly, EBTIDA margins expanded 60 basis points over the year ago period.
Industrial Solutions
Industrial Solutions revenues increased $19.3 million, or 8.2%, in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017.
Increases in volume, favorable currency translation, and rising copper prices contributed $11.4 million, $9.9 million, and $4.0 million to the increase in revenues, respectively.
We experienced strong demand across all of our markets, with total Industrial Solutions orders increasing approximately 11% year-over-year.
The increases discussed above were partially offset by $6.0 million from the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017.
Industrial Solutions EBITDA increased $2.6 million, or 5.9%, in the three months ended April 1, 2018 from the comparable period of 2017 due to the growth in revenues discussed above.
EBITDA margins remained relatively flat year-over-year primarily as a result of unfavorable mix and increased investments in new product introductions.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Operating cash flows were a use of cash of $83.9 million and $12.3 million in the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively, representing a decrease of $71.6 million.
The decrease in operating cash flow as compared to prior year is primarily due to an unfavorable change in operating assets and liabilities of $69.2 million.
While the days payable outstanding of 92 days as of the
end of the first quarter of 2018 was consistent with the first quarter of 2017, accounts payable at the end of 2017 included approximately $16.0 million for growth capital expenditure projects and $30 million related to the build in safety stock inventory during the fourth quarter in support of the closure of the Monticello facility.
The unfavorable change in operating cash flow during the first quarter of 2018 includes the payments for these fourth quarter 2017 actions.
Net cash used for investing activities totaled $52.9 million for the three months ended April 1, 2018, compared to $10.4 million for the comparable period of 2017.
Investing activities for the three months ended April 1, 2018 included payments, net of cash acquired, for the acquisition of SAM of $75.2 million; capital expenditures of $15.9 million; and a $1.0 million payment related to our 2015 acquisition of Tripwire that had previously been deferred, net of $39.1 million of cash received for the sale of the MCS business and Hirschmann JV which closed on December 31, 2017.
Investing activities for the three months ended April 2, 2017 included capital expenditures of $10.4 million.
Net cash used for financing activities for the three months ended April 1, 2018 totaled $64.6 million, compared to $15.2 million for the comparable period of 2017. Financing activities for the three months ended April 1, 2018 included payments under borrowing arrangements of $401.2 million, payments under our share repurchase program of $75.3 million, cash dividend payments of $10.8 million, debt issuance costs of $7.1 million, net payments related to share based compensation activities of $1.5 million, and $431.3 million of cash proceeds from the issuance of the €350.0 million 3.875% Notes due 2028. Financing activities for the three months ended April 2, 2017 included cash dividend payments of $10.8 million and net payments related to share based compensation activities of $4.4 million.
Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $362.9 million as of April 1, 2018.
Of this amount, $163.6 million was held outside of the U.S. in our foreign operations.
Substantially all of the foreign cash and cash equivalents are readily convertible into U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies.
We consider the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for any withholding taxes has been recorded.
Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to withholding taxes payable to the respective foreign countries.
Our outstanding debt obligations as of April 1, 2018 consisted of $1,687.9 million of senior subordinated notes.
Additional discussion regarding our various borrowing arrangements is included in Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of April 1, 2018, we had $333.4 million in available borrowing capacity under our Revolver.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this report other than historical facts are “forward-looking statements” made in reliance upon the safe harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include statements regarding future financial performance (including revenues, expenses, earnings, margins, cash flows, dividends, capital expenditures and financial condition), plans and objectives, and related assumptions.
These forward-looking statements reflect management’s current beliefs and expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by any forward-looking statements for a number of reasons, including, without limitation: the impact of a challenging global economy or a downturn in served markets; the competitiveness of the global broadcast, enterprise, and industrial markets; volatility in credit and foreign exchange markets; the inability to execute and realize the expected benefits from strategic initiatives (including revenue growth, cost control, and productivity improvement programs); the inability to achieve our strategic priorities in emerging markets; the presence of substitute products in the marketplace; the inability of the Company to develop and introduce new products and competitive responses to our products; the increased prevalence of cloud computing; the inability to successfully complete and integrate acquisitions in furtherance of the Company’s strategic plan; foreign and domestic political, economic and other uncertainties, including changes in currency exchange rates; changes in tax laws and variability in the Company’s quarterly and annual effective tax rates; the increased influence of chief information officers and similar high-level executives; disruptions in the Company’s information systems including due to cyber-attacks; perceived or actual product failures; risks related to the use of open source software; the cost and availability of raw materials including copper, plastic compounds, electronic components, and other materials; difficulty in forecasting revenue due to the unpredictable timing of large orders; disruption of, or changes in, the Company’s key distribution channels; the inability to retain senior management and key employees; assertions that the Company violates the intellectual property of others and the ownership of intellectual property by competitors and others that prevents the use of that intellectual property by the Company; the impact of regulatory requirements and other legal compliance issues; the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and the resulting impact on financial performance; disruptions and increased costs attendant to collective bargaining groups and other labor matters; and other factors.
For a more complete discussion of risk factors, please see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 13, 2018.
We disclaim any duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.
Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Set forth below is information regarding our stock repurchases for the three months ended April 1, 2018 (in thousands, except per share amounts).
Item 6: Exhibits
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
