Item 2: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview

Belden Inc. (the Company, us, we, or our) is a signal transmission solutions company built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
We use a set of tools and processes that are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, and innovation.
We consider revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flows, and return on invested capital to be our key operating performance indicators.
We also seek to acquire businesses that we believe can help us achieve these objectives.
Trends and Events

The following trends and events during 2019 have had varying effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
Foreign currency

Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real.
Generally, as the U.S. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, our revenues and earnings are negatively impacted as our foreign denominated revenues and earnings are translated into U.S. dollars at a lower rate.
Conversely, as the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, our revenues and earnings are positively impacted.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S.
In addition to the translation impact described above, currency rate fluctuations have an economic impact on our financial results.
As the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, it results in a relative price increase or decrease for certain of our products that are priced in U.S. dollars in a foreign location.
Commodity prices

Our operating results can be affected by changes in prices of commodities, primarily copper and compounds, which are components in some of the products we sell.
Generally, as the costs of inventory purchases increase due to higher commodity prices, we raise selling prices to customers to cover the increase in costs, resulting in higher sales revenue but a lower gross profit percentage.
Conversely, a decrease in commodity prices would result in lower sales revenue but a higher gross profit percentage.
Selling prices of our products are affected by many factors, including end market demand, capacity utilization, overall economic conditions, and commodity prices.
Importantly, however, there is no exact measure of the effect of changing commodity prices, as there are thousands of transactions in any given quarter, each of which has various factors involved in the individual pricing decisions.
Therefore, all references to the effect of copper prices or other commodity prices are estimates.
Channel Inventory

Our operating results also can be affected by the levels of Belden products purchased and held as inventory by our channel partners and customers.
Our channel partners and customers purchase and hold the products they bought from us in their inventory in order to meet the service and on-time delivery requirements of their customers.
Generally, as our channel partners and customers change the level of products they buy from us and hold in their inventory, it impacts our revenues.
Comparisons of our results between periods can be impacted by changes in the levels of channel inventory.
We use information provided to us by our channel partners and make certain assumptions based on our sales to them to determine the amount of products they bought from us and hold in their inventory.
As such, all references to the effect of channel inventory changes are estimates.
Market Growth and Market Share

The markets in which we operate can generally be characterized as highly competitive and highly fragmented, with many players.
We monitor available data regarding market growth, including independent market research reports, publicly available indices, and the financial results of our direct and indirect peer companies, in order to estimate the extent to which our served markets grew or contracted during a particular period.
We expect that our unit sales volume will increase or decrease consistently with the market growth rate.
Our strategic goal is to utilize our Market Delivery System to target faster growing geographies, applications, and trends within our end markets, in order to achieve growth that is higher than the general market growth rate.
To the extent that we exceed the market growth rates, we consider it to be the result of capturing market share.
Grass Valley and SAM Integration Program

In 2018, we began a restructuring program to integrate SAM with Grass Valley.
The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired facilities and other support functions.
We recognized $3.0 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment.
We do not expect to incur any more costs for this program.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows that are or would be considered material to investors.
Critical Accounting Policies


•We did not change any of our existing critical accounting policies from those listed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K other than updating our lease accounting policies for the adoption of ASU 2016-02;

•No existing accounting policies became critical accounting policies because of an increase in the materiality of associated transactions or changes in the circumstances to which associated judgments and estimates relate; and

•There were no significant changes in the manner in which critical accounting policies were applied or in which related judgments and estimates were developed.
Results of Operations

Consolidated Income before Taxes 



•Lower sales volume resulted in a $20.9 million decrease in revenues.
•Currency translation had a $13.7 million unfavorable impact on revenues.
•Copper prices had a $5.1 million unfavorable impact on revenues.
•Favorable pricing resulted in a $10.6 million increase in revenues.
•Acquisitions contributed an estimated $10.7 million increase in revenues.
The decrease in volume was primarily experienced in our Enterprise solutions segment, partially offset by an increase in volume in our Industrial solutions segment.
Gross profit decreased $5.9 million, or 2.5%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018 due to the decreases in revenues discussed above as well as a $0.7 million increase in the amortization of software development intangible assets.
The aforementioned adverse impacts on gross profit were partially offset by decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs and purchase accounting effects of acquisitions of $8.8 million and $0.5 million, respectively, as compared to the year ago period.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $2.1 million, or 1.7%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018.
A decrease in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; favorable currency translation; and productivity improvement initiatives contributed $6.6 million, $1.7 million, and $0.9 million, respectively, to the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses; partially offset by a $5.8 million and $1.3 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses from acquisitions and purchase accounting effects related to acquisitions, respectively, over the year ago period.
Research and development expenses decreased $2.9 million, or 7.9%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018.
Productivity improvement initiatives; a decrease in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; and favorable currency translation contributed $2.6 million, $1.2 million, and $0.4 million, respectively, to the decrease in research and development expenses; partially offset by a $1.3 million increase in research and development expenses from acquisitions over the year ago period.
Amortization of intangibles decreased $1.1 million, or 4.4%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018 primarily due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized.
Operating income increased $0.2 million, or 0.5%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018 primarily due to the decrease in operating expenses discussed above.
Net interest expense decreased $2.8 million, or 16.4%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018 as a result of our debt transactions during 2018.
In March 2018, we issued €350.0 million aggregate principal amount of new senior subordinated notes due 2028 at an interest rate of 3.875%, and used the net proceeds of this offering and cash on hand to repurchase all of our outstanding €200.0 million 5.5% senior subordinated notes due 2023 as well as all of our outstanding $200.0 million 5.25% senior subordinated notes due 2024.
The loss on debt extinguishment recognized in the first quarter of 2018 represents the premium paid to the bond holders to retire a portion of the 2023 and 2024 notes and the unamortized debt issuance costs written-off.
Income before taxes increased $23.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018.
This increase is primarily due to the loss on debt extinguishment in the prior year as well as the decline in net interest expense and increase in operating income over the year ago period discussed above.
Income Taxes


We recognized income tax expense of $5.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, representing an effective tax rate of 18.3%.
The effective tax rate was impacted by an income tax benefit of $0.8 million as a result of a change in our valuation allowance on foreign tax credits due to the restructuring of certain foreign operations.
•We recognized income tax expense of $1.8 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 as a result of a change in our valuation allowance on foreign tax credits associated with our euro debt refinancing during the quarter.
•We also recognized income tax expense of $0.5 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 as a result of changes in our valuation allowance for the Act.
On December 22, 2017, the Act was signed into law, making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code.
Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017.
Also on December 22, 2017, SAB 118 was issued to address the application of US GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we obtained additional information affecting the provisional amount initially recorded for the valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credits in 2017, and as a result, recorded an adjustment to the valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credits at such time.
Our income tax expense and effective tax rate in future periods may be impacted by many factors, including our geographic mix of income and changes in tax laws.
Consolidated Adjusted Revenues and Adjusted EBITDA 



•Lower sales volume resulted in a $20.9 million decrease in revenues.
•Currency translation had a $13.7 million unfavorable impact on revenues.
•Copper prices had a $5.1 million unfavorable impact on revenues.
•Acquisitions contributed an estimated $8.9 million increase in revenues.
•Favorable pricing resulted in a $10.6 million increase in revenues.
The decrease in volume was primarily experienced in our Enterprise solutions segment, partially offset by an increase in volume in our Industrial solutions segment.
Adjusted EBITDA decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018 primarily due to the decrease in revenues as discussed above.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information









Segment Results of Operations

For additional information regarding our segment measures, see Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Enterprise Solutions


Enterprise Solutions revenues decreased $24.5 million, or 7.0%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, decreases in volume, unfavorable currency translation, and lower copper prices contributed an estimated $32.1 million, $5.5 million, and $2.1 million to the decline in revenues; partially offset by the impact of acquisitions and favorable pricing, which contributed an estimated $8.9 million and $6.3 million increase in revenues, respectively.
The decrease in volume was primarily due to softer demand in the final mile broadband and live media production markets, partially offset by growth in the smart buildings market.
Enterprise Solutions EBITDA decreased $17.9 million, or 31.1%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the year ago period primarily as a result of the decline in revenues discussed above, partially offset by the impact of productivity improvement initiatives, which had an estimated $5.8 million favorable impact on EBITDA.
Industrial Solutions 


Industrial Solutions revenues increased $4.2 million, or 1.6%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018 primarily due to growth in volume and favorable pricing, which contributed an estimated $11.1 million and $4.3 million to the increase in revenues, respectively; partially offset by unfavorable currency translation and lower copper prices, which had an estimated $8.2 million and $3.0 million unfavorable impact on revenues, respectively.
The increase in volume was broad-based with growth in all regions.
Industrial Solutions EBITDA increased $1.0 million, or 2.2%, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 from the comparable period of 2018 primarily as a result of the growth in revenues discussed above.
Accordingly, EBITDA margins expanded 10 basis points year-over-year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources





Operating cash flows were a use of cash of $46.1 million and $83.9 million in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively, representing an improvement of $37.8 million.
The improvement in operating cash flows as compared to prior year is primarily due to a $42.5 million increase in cash received from receivables over the year ago period.
The improvement in receivables lowered days sales outstanding to 62 days during the first quarter of 2019 as compared to 66 days during the first quarter of 2018.
Net cash used for investing activities totaled $23.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to $52.9 million for the comparable period of 2018.
Investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 included capital expenditures of $23.6 million.
Investing activities for the three months ended April 1, 2018 included payments, net of cash acquired, for the acquisition of SAM of $75.2 million; capital expenditures of $15.9 million; and a $1.0 million payment related to our 2015 acquisition of Tripwire that had previously been deferred, net of $39.1 million of cash received for the sale of the MCS business and Hirschmann JV which closed on December 31, 2017.
Capital expenditures increased $7.7 million year-over-year due in part to the investments we are making in India and software development.
Net cash used for financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 totaled $12.7 million, compared to $64.6 million for the comparable period of 2018. Financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 included cash dividend payments of $10.7 million and net payments related to share based compensation activities of $1.9 million.
Financing activities for the three months ended April 1, 2018 included payments under borrowing arrangements of $401.2 million, payments under our share repurchase program of $75.3 million, cash dividend payments of $10.8 million, debt issuance costs of $7.1 million, net payments related to share based compensation activities of $1.5 million, and $431.3 million of cash proceeds from the issuance of the €350.0 million 3.875% Notes due 2028.
Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $339.0 million as of March 31, 2019.
Of this amount, $165.0 million was held outside of the U.S. in our foreign operations.
Substantially all of the foreign cash and cash equivalents are readily convertible into U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies.
We consider the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for any withholding taxes has been recorded.
Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to withholding taxes payable to the respective foreign countries.
Our outstanding debt obligations as of March 31, 2019 consisted of $1,462.5 million of senior subordinated notes.
Additional discussion regarding our various borrowing arrangements is included in Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of March 31, 2019, we had $345.5 million in available borrowing capacity under our Revolver.
Forward-Looking Statements

Statements in this report other than historical facts are “forward-looking statements” made in reliance upon the safe harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include statements regarding future financial performance (including revenues, expenses, earnings, margins, cash flows, dividends, capital expenditures and financial condition), plans and objectives, and related assumptions.
These forward-looking statements reflect management’s current beliefs and expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual results may differ materially from those suggested by any forward-looking statements based on a number of factors.
These factors include, among others, those set forth in Part II, Item 1A and in other documents that we file with the SEC.
We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
