Item 1.Financial Statements
BELDEN INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
BELDEN INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
BELDEN INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
BELDEN INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENT
THREE MONTHS ENDED APRIL 1, 2018
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
BELDEN INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include Belden Inc. and all of its subsidiaries (the Company, us, we, or our).
We eliminate all significant affiliate accounts and transactions in consolidation.
•Are prepared from the books and records without audit, and
•Are prepared in accordance with the instructions for Form 10-Q and do not include all of the information required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for complete statements, but
•Include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Business Description
We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Our comprehensive portfolio of signal transmission solutions provides industry leading secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
Reporting Periods
Our fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter both end on December 31.
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was April 1, 2018, the 91st day of our fiscal year 2018.
Our fiscal second and third quarters each have 91 days.
The three months ended April 2, 2017 included 92 days.
Operating Segments
Effective January 1, 2018, we changed our organizational structure and, as a result, now are reporting two segments.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed.
We have recast the prior period segment information to conform to the change in the composition of these reportable segments.
Reclassifications
We have made certain reclassifications to the 2017 Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements including for the adoption of ASU 2017-07 and for our segment change with no impact to reported net income in order to conform to the 2018 presentation.
See Note 5.
Interim Periods of 2017
During the financial closing process for the fourth quarter of 2017, we determined that certain consolidated financial statement amounts were not recorded correctly in prior interim periods of 2017.
We evaluated these errors and concluded that they were not material to any of our previously issued interim financial statements and did not require restatement of the quarters.
The errors primarily related to recognizing revenue prior to satisfying all of the delivery criteria in one business within our Enterprise segment.
All of the errors were corrected as of December 31, 2017.
The impact of the errors in the first quarter of 2017 was an overstatement of revenues and net income of $6.1 million and $3.0 million, respectively.
Fair Value Measurement
•Level 1 – Quoted prices in active markets that are unadjusted and accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities;
•Level 2 – Quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, or financial instruments for which significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly; and
•Level 3 – Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.
As of and during the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, we utilized Level 1 inputs to determine the fair value of cash equivalents, and we utilized Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations (see Note 3).
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
We periodically have cash equivalents consisting of short-term money market funds and other investments.
As of April 1, 2018, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand.
The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve our capital for the purpose of funding operations.
We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes.
Contingent Liabilities
We have established liabilities for environmental and legal contingencies that are probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable, the amounts of which are currently not material.
We accrue environmental remediation costs based on estimates of known environmental remediation exposures developed in consultation with our environmental consultants and legal counsel.
We are, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to our business.
These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of our products, allegations of patent or trademark infringement, and litigation and administrative proceedings involving employment matters and commercial disputes.
Based on facts currently available, we believe the disposition of the claims that are pending or asserted will not have a materially adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flow.
As of April 1, 2018, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.3 million, $2.7 million, and $2.4 million, respectively.
Contingent Gain
On July 5, 2011, our wholly-owned subsidiary, PPC Broadband, Inc. (PPC), filed an action for patent infringement against Corning Optical Communications RF LLC (Corning).
The complaint alleged that Corning infringed two of PPC’s patents.
In July 2015, a jury found that Corning willfully infringed both patents.
In November 2016, following a series of post-trial motions, the trial judge issued rulings for a total judgment in our favor of approximately $61.3 million.
In December 2016, Corning appealed the case to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance, without written opinion, of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded about $61.8 million as a result.
On April 12, 2018, Corning filed a petition for re-hearing.
We have not recorded any amounts in our consolidated financial statements related to this matter.
Revenue Recognition
Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations.
For such arrangements, we allocate revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
Generally, the standalone selling prices are determined based upon the prices charged to customers.
The transaction price for certain contracts are subject to variable consideration for estimated rebates, price allowances, invoicing adjustments, and product returns.
We use the most likely amount method for estimating rebates and the expected value method for estimating price allowances, invoicing adjustments, and product returns.
We record revisions to these estimates in the period in which the facts that give rise to each revision become known.
Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are not included in our revenues.
We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance.
Our payment terms vary by the type and location of our customer and the products or services offered.
The term between invoicing and when payment is due is generally not significant.
For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer.
Sales commissions for which the related service or support contract extends beyond one year are capitalized in other current or long-lived assets and recognized as expense over the related service or support period.
In the event the related service or support period is twelve months or less, we apply the practical expedient and expense the sales commissions when incurred.
These costs are recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses.
Subsequent Events
We have evaluated subsequent events after the balance sheet date through the financial statement issuance date for appropriate accounting and disclosure.
Current-Year Adoption of Accounting Pronouncements
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), which replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of the ASU is that an entity should recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount that it expects to be entitled to receive for those goods or services.
ASU 2014-09 requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments.
We adopted ASU 2014-09 on January 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method of adoption.
Adoption resulted in a $2.6 million, net of tax increase to retained earnings.
This adjustment primarily relates to the deferral of costs to obtain a contract that were previously expensed at the beginning of the contract period.
In October 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory (ASU 2016-16), which requires recognition of the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Consequently, the standard eliminates the exception to the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer other than for inventory until the asset has been sold to an outside party.
We adopted ASU 2016-16 on January 1, 2018.
Adoption resulted in a $3.0 million and $46.9 million decrease to other current assets and other long-lived assets, respectively, as well as an $18.2 million increase in deferred income tax assets and a $31.7 million decrease to retained earnings on January 1, 2018.
Adoption had no material impact on our results of operations.
Operations separately from the service cost component after Operating Income.
Additionally, only the service cost component is eligible for capitalization, when applicable.
The standard requires the amendments to be applied retrospectively for the presentation of the service cost component and the other cost components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic OPEB cost in the Statement of Operations and prospectively, on and after the effective date, for the capitalization of the service cost component of net periodic pension and OPEB costs.
We adopted ASU 2017-07 on January 1, 2018, and elected to use the practical expedient related to the retrospective presentation requirements.
Adoption resulted in a $0.3 million increase to operating income, but no change to net income during the quarter ended April 2, 2017.
Pending Adoption of Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-02, Leases (ASU 2016-02), a leasing standard for both lessees and lessors.
Under its core principle, a lessee will recognize lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all arrangements with terms longer than 12 months.
Lessor accounting remains largely consistent with existing U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
The new standard will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
The standard requires the use of a modified retrospective transition method.
We are still evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, but our initial assessment indicates that it will have a material impact to total assets and liabilities as we will be required to recognize lease assets and liabilities for all operating leases in which we are the lessee.
In January 2018, the FASB released guidance on the accounting for tax on the global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”).
The GILTI provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations.
The guidance indicates that either accounting for deferred taxes related to GILTI inclusions or to treat any taxes on GILTI inclusions as a period cost are both acceptable methods subject to an accounting policy election.
Pending further anticipated clarification and guidance related to the application of the GILTI provisions and their impact to Belden, we intend to further assess the materiality of the anticipated GILTI inclusion before making a policy election.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Update No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2018.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
We recorded a net increase to retained earnings of $2.6 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, with the impact primarily related to sales commissions and software revenues within our Industrial Solutions segment.
The impact to revenues for the three months ended April 1, 2018 was a decrease of $0.1 million as a result of applying Topic 606.
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers and in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are not included in our revenues.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by major product category.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of the customer purchasing the product.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.
We generate revenues primarily by selling products that provide secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
We also generate revenues from providing support and professional services.
We sell our products to distributors, end-users, installers, and directly to original equipment manufacturers.
At times, we enter into arrangements that involve the delivery of multiple performance obligations.
For these arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative selling price and recognized when or as each performance obligation is satisfied.
Most of our performance obligations related to the sale of products are satisfied at a point in time when control of the product is transferred based on the shipping terms of the arrangement.
Generally, we determine relative selling price using the prices charged to customers.
The amount of consideration we receive and revenue we recognize varies due to rebates, returns, and price adjustments.
We estimate the expected rebates, returns, and price adjustments based on an analysis of historical experience, anticipated sales demand, and trends in product pricing.
We adjust our estimate of revenue at the earlier of when the most likely amount of consideration we expect to receive changes or when the consideration becomes fixed.
As a result, we recognized an increase to revenues of
$0.2 million during the three months ended April 1, 2018 related to performance obligations satisfied in prior periods.
Accrued rebates and accrued returns as of April 1, 2018 totaled $17.9 million and $6.9 million, respectively.
Estimated price adjustments recognized against our gross accounts receivable balance as of April 1, 2018 totaled $25.7 million.
Depending on the terms of an arrangement, we may defer the recognition of a portion of the consideration received because we have to satisfy a future obligation.
Consideration allocated to support services under a support and maintenance contract is typically paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the service.
Consideration allocated to professional services is recognized when or as the services are performed depending on the terms of the arrangement.
As of January 1, 2018, total deferred revenue was $104.4 million, and $52.0 million of this amount was recognized as revenue during the three months ended April 1, 2018.
Total deferred revenue was $97.8 million as of April 1, 2018.
We expense sales commissions as incurred when the duration of the related revenue arrangement is one year or less.
We capitalize sales commissions in other current or long-lived assets on our balance sheet when the duration of the related revenue arrangement is longer than one year, and we amortize it over the related revenue arrangement period.
Total capitalized sales commissions was $2.4 million as of April 1, 2018.
Total sales commissions costs were $6.1 million during the three months ended April 1, 2018.
Sales commissions are recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses.
Snell Advanced Media
The above purchase price allocation is preliminary, and is subject to revision as additional information about the fair value of individual assets and liabilities becomes available.
We are in the process of ensuring our accounting policies are applied at SAM.
The preliminary measurement of receivables; inventories; property, plant and equipment; intangible assets; goodwill; deferred
income taxes; deferred revenue; and other assets and liabilities are subject to change.
A change in the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired will change the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill.
A single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions.
The judgments we have used in estimating the preliminary fair values assigned to each class of acquired assets and assumed liabilities could materially affect the results of our operations.
The preliminary fair value of acquired receivables is $19.9 million, which is equivalent to its gross contractual amount.
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our estimate of the preliminary fair value for the acquired inventory; property, plant, and equipment; intangible assets; and deferred revenue on a preliminary valuation study performed by a third party valuation firm.
We have estimated a preliminary fair value adjustment for inventories based on the estimated selling price of the work-in-process and finished goods acquired at the closing date less the sum of the costs to complete the work-in-process, the costs of disposal, and a reasonable profit allowance for our post acquisition selling efforts.
To determine the value of the acquired property, plant, and equipment, we used various valuation methods, including both the market approach, which considers sales prices of similar assets in similar conditions (Level 2 valuation), and the cost approach, which considers the cost to replace the asset adjusted for depreciation (Level 3 valuation).
We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the preliminary fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and deferred revenue (Level 3 valuation).
The amortizable intangible assets reflected in the table above were determined by us to have finite lives.
The useful life for the developed technology intangible asset was based on the estimated time that the technology provides us with a competitive advantage and thus approximates the period and pattern of consumption of the intangible asset.
The useful life for the customer relationship intangible asset was based on our forecasts of estimated sales from recurring customers.
The useful life of the backlog intangible asset was based on our estimate of when the ordered items would ship.
The useful life for the trademarks was based on the period of time we expect to continue to go to market using the trademarks.
Our consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes for the three months ended April 1, 2018 included $20.8 million and $(2.8) million, respectively, from SAM.
The loss before taxes from SAM included $2.2 million of amortization of intangible assets and $0.5 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value.
The following table illustrates the unaudited pro forma effect on operating results as if the SAM acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2017.
For purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the three months ended April 2, 2017 includes nonrecurring expenses related to the acquisition, including severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; amortization of the sales backlog intangible asset; and cost of sales arising from the adjustment of inventory to fair value of $9.2 million, $1.3 million, and $0.8 million, respectively.
The above unaudited pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only and does not purport to represent what our results of operations would have been had we completed the acquisition on the date assumed, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in future periods.
Pro forma adjustments exclude cost savings from any synergies resulting from the acquisition.
Thinklogical Holdings, LLC
A single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions.
The judgments we have used in estimating the preliminary fair values assigned to each class of acquired assets and assumed liabilities could materially affect the results of our operations.
The preliminary fair value of acquired receivables is $4.4 million, which is equivalent to its gross contractual amount.
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our estimate of the preliminary fair value for the acquired inventory, intangible assets, and deferred revenue on a preliminary valuation study performed by a third party valuation firm.
We have estimated a preliminary fair value adjustment for inventories based on the estimated selling price of the work-in-process and finished goods acquired at the closing date less the sum of the costs to complete the work-in-process, the costs of disposal, and a reasonable profit allowance for our post acquisition selling efforts.
We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income,
excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the preliminary fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and deferred revenue (Level 3 valuation).
The determination of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and the allocation of the purchase price is substantially complete pending the completion of a stub period tax return that has yet to be filed.
The amortizable intangible assets reflected in the table above were determined by us to have finite lives.
The useful life for the customer relationship intangible asset was based on our forecasts of estimated sales from recurring customers.
The useful life for the trademarks was based on the period of time we expect to continue to go to market using the trademarks.
The useful life for the developed technology intangible asset was based on the estimated time that the technology provides us with a competitive advantage and thus approximates the period and pattern of consumption of the intangible asset.
The useful life of the backlog intangible asset was based on our estimate of when the ordered items would ship.
Our consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes for the three months ended April 1, 2018 included $7.8 million and $(2.2) million, respectively, from Thinklogical.
The loss before taxes from Thinklogical included $3.2 million of amortization of intangible assets.
The following table illustrates the unaudited pro forma effect on operating results as if the Thinklogical acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2016.
The above unaudited pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only and does not purport to represent what our results of operations would have been had we completed the acquisition on the date assumed, nor is it necessarily indicative
of the results that may be expected in future periods.
Pro forma adjustments exclude cost savings from any synergies resulting from the acquisition.
During the fourth quarter of 2016, we committed to a plan to sell our MCS business and Hirschmann JV.
The MCS business operated in Germany and the United States and was part of the Industrial Solutions segment, and the Hirschmann JV was an equity method investment located in China.
Effective December 31, 2017, we sold the MCS business and Hirschmann JV for a total purchase price of $40.2 million, of which $39.1 million was collected during the first quarter of 2018.
Effective January 1, 2018, we changed our organizational structure and, as a result, now are reporting two segments.
The segments formerly known as Broadcast Solutions and Enterprise Solutions now are presented as the Enterprise Solutions segment, and the segments formerly known as Industrial Solutions and Network Solutions now are presented as the Industrial Solutions segment.
The reorganization allows us to further accelerate progress in key strategic areas and the segment consolidation properly aligns our external reporting with the way the businesses are now managed.
We have recast the prior period segment information to conform to the change in the composition of these reportable segments.
This change had no impact to our reporting units for purposes of goodwill impairment testing.
The key measures of segment profit or loss reviewed by our chief operating decision maker are Segment Revenues and Segment EBITDA.
Segment Revenues represent non-affiliate revenues and include revenues that would have otherwise been recorded by acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations due to the effects of purchase accounting and the associated write-down of acquired deferred revenue to fair value.
Segment EBITDA excludes certain items, including depreciation expense; amortization of intangibles; asset impairment; severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; purchase accounting effects related to acquisitions, such as the adjustment of acquired inventory and deferred revenue to fair value; and other costs.
We allocate corporate expenses to the segments for purposes of measuring Segment EBITDA.
Corporate expenses are allocated on the basis of each segment’s relative EBITDA prior to the allocation.
Our measure of segment assets does not include cash, goodwill, intangible assets, deferred tax assets, or corporate assets.
All goodwill is allocated to reporting units of our segments for purposes of impairment testing.
The following table is a reconciliation of the total of the reportable segments’ Revenues and EBITDA to consolidated revenues and consolidated income before taxes, respectively.
For the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.5 million and 0.3 million, respectively, because to do so would have been anti-dilutive.
In addition, for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include outstanding equity awards of 0.2 million and 0.2 million, respectively, because the related performance conditions have not been satisfied.
Furthermore, for both the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, diluted weighted average shares outstanding do not include the impact of preferred shares that are convertible into 6.9 million common shares, because deducting the preferred stock dividends from net income was more dilutive.
For purposes of calculating basic earnings per share, unvested restricted stock units are not included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding until all necessary conditions have been satisfied and issuance of the shares underlying the restricted stock units is no longer contingent.
Necessary conditions are not satisfied until the vesting date, at which time holders of our restricted stock units receive shares of our common stock.
For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, unvested restricted stock units are included to the extent that they are dilutive.
In determining whether unvested restricted stock units are dilutive, each issuance of restricted stock units is considered separately.
Once a restricted stock unit has vested, it is included in the calculation of both basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding.
Depreciation and Amortization Expense
We recognized depreciation expense of $11.9 million and $11.4 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, respectively.
We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $24.6 million and $23.7 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, respectively.
During the first quarter of 2018, we began a restructuring program to integrate our acquisition of SAM with Grass Valley.
The restructuring and integration activities are focused on achieving desired cost savings by consolidating existing and acquired operating facilities and other support functions.
We recognized $9.2 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended April 1, 2018.
The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment.
We expect to incur approximately $41 million of additional severance and restructuring costs for this program, most of which will be incurred by the end of 2018.
We also expect the program to generate approximately $44 million of savings on an annualized basis, which we will start realizing in the second half of 2018.
In 2016, we began a program to consolidate our manufacturing footprint.
The manufacturing consolidation is expected to be completed in 2018.
We recognized $7.5 million and $5.7 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, respectively.
The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions segments, as the manufacturing locations involved in the program serve both platforms.
To date, we have incurred a total of $55.9 million in severance and other restructuring costs, including manufacturing inefficiencies for this program.
We expect the program to generate approximately $13 million of savings on an annualized basis, which we began to realize in the third quarter of 2017.
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the three months ended April 1, 2018, $9.4 million, $9.4 million, and $1.6 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively.
Of the total severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs recognized in the three months ended April 2, 2017, $5.9 million, $0.7 million, and $0.0 million were included in cost of sales; selling, general and administrative expenses; and research and development, respectively.
The other restructuring and integration costs primarily consisted of equipment transfer, costs to consolidate operating and support facilities, retention bonuses, relocation, travel, legal, and other costs.
The majority of the other restructuring and integration costs related to these actions were paid as incurred or are payable within the next 60 days.
There were no significant severance accrual balances as of April 1, 2018 or December 31, 2017.
Revolving Credit Agreement due 2022
Our Revolving Credit Agreement provides a $400.0 million multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility (The Revolver).
The borrowing base under the Revolver includes eligible accounts receivable; inventory; and property, plant and equipment of certain of our subsidiaries in the U.S., Canada, Germany, and the Netherlands.
The maturity date of the Revolver is May 16, 2022.
Interest on outstanding borrowings is variable, based upon LIBOR or other similar indices in foreign jurisdictions, plus a spread that ranges from 1.25%-1.75%, depending upon our leverage position.
We pay a commitment fee on our available borrowing capacity of 0.25%.
In the event we borrow more than 90% of our borrowing base, we are subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant.
As of April 1, 2018, we had no borrowings outstanding on the Revolver, and our available borrowing capacity was $333.4 million.
Senior Subordinated Notes
In March 2018, we completed an offering for €350.0 million ($431.3 million at issuance) aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior subordinated notes due 2028 (the 2028 Notes).
The carrying value of the 2028 Notes as of April 1, 2018 is $432.3 million.
The 2028 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries.
The 2028 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2027, 2026, 2025, 2024, and 2023 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver.
Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2018.
We paid approximately $7.1 million of fees associated with the issuance of the 2028 Notes, which will be amortized over the life of the 2028 Notes using the effective interest method.
We used the net proceeds from this offering and cash on hand to repurchase the 2023 and 2024 Notes - see further discussion below.
We have outstanding €450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375% senior subordinated notes due 2027 (the 2027 Notes).
The carrying value of the 2027 Notes as of April 1, 2018 is $555.8 million.
The 2027 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated
basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries.
The 2027 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2026, 2025, 2024, and 2023 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver.
Interest is payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year.
We have outstanding €200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.125% senior subordinated notes due 2026 (the 2026 Notes).
The carrying value of the 2026 Notes as of April 1, 2018 is $247.0 million.
The 2026 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries.
The 2026 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2027, 2025, 2024, and 2023 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver.
Interest is payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 of each year.
We have outstanding €300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.875% senior subordinated notes due 2025 (the 2025 Notes).
The carrying value of the 2025 Notes as of April 1, 2018 is $370.6 million.
The 2025 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries.
The 2025 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2027, 2026, 2024, and 2023 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver.
Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year.
We had outstanding $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior subordinated notes due 2024 (the 2024 Notes).
In March 2018, we repurchased $188.7 million of the $200.0 million 2024 Notes outstanding for cash consideration of $199.8 million, including a prepayment penalty and recognized a $13.8 million loss on debt extinguishment including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
The carrying value of the 2024 Notes as of April 1, 2018 is $11.3 million.
The 2024 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by certain of our subsidiaries.
The 2024 Notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2027, 2026, 2025, and 2023 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver.
Interest is payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year.
We repurchased the remaining 2024 Notes outstanding on April 5, 2018.
We had outstanding €200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.5% senior subordinated notes due 2023 (the 2023 Notes).
In March 2018, we repurchased €143.1 million of the €200.0 million 2023 Notes outstanding for cash consideration of €147.8 million ($182.1 million), including a prepayment penalty and recognized a $6.2 million loss on debt extinguishment including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
The carrying value of the 2023 Notes as of April 1, 2018 is $70.9 million.
The 2023 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by certain of our subsidiaries.
The notes rank equal in right of payment with our senior subordinated notes due 2028, 2027, 2026, 2025, and 2024 and with any future subordinated debt, and they are subordinated to all of our senior debt and the senior debt of our subsidiary guarantors, including our Revolver.
Interest is payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 of each year.
We repurchased the remaining 2023 Notes outstanding on April 5, 2018.
Fair Value of Long-Term Debt
The fair value of our senior subordinated notes as of April 1, 2018 was approximately $1,685.8 million based on quoted prices of the debt instruments in inactive markets (Level 2 valuation).
This amount represents the fair values of our senior subordinated notes with a carrying value of $1,687.9 million as of April 1, 2018.
All of our euro denominated notes were issued by Belden Inc., a USD functional currency ledger.
As of April 1, 2018, all of our outstanding foreign denominated debt is designated as a net investment hedge on the foreign currency risk of our net investment in our euro foreign operations.
The objective of the hedge is to protect the net investment in the foreign operation against adverse changes in exchange rates.
The transaction gain or loss is reported in the cumulative translation adjustment section of other comprehensive income.
The amount of the cumulative translation adjustment associated with these notes at April 1, 2018 was $39.2 million.
As of April 2, 2017, only our 2026 Notes were designated as a net investment hedge on the foreign currency risk of our net investment in our euro foreign operations, and the cumulative translation adjustment associated with the 2026 Notes at April 2, 2017 was $6.9 million.
- We recognized income tax expense of $1.8 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 as a result of a change in our valuation allowance on foreign tax credits associated with our euro debt refinancing during the quarter.
- We also recognized income tax expense of $0.5 million in the three months ended April 1, 2018 as a result of changes in our valuation allowance for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
The amount of this adjustment remains provisional under SAB 118.
On December 22, 2017, the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (the “Act”) was signed into law, making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code.
Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017.
On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (“SAB 118”) was issued to address the application of US GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we obtained additional information affecting the provisional amount initially recorded for the valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credits in 2017.
As a result, we recorded an adjustment to the valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credits.
Additional work is still necessary for a more detailed analysis of all provisional amounts associated with the Act including the remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities, the one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings and the valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credits.
We continue to evaluate the need for a provisional amount regarding the non-deductibility of certain covered employee compensation associated with the amendments to IRC section 162(m).
As of the date of this filing, we reasonably believe no such provision should be recorded.
Any subsequent adjustment to these amounts will be recorded to tax expense in the quarter of 2018 when the analysis is complete.
Our income tax expense and effective tax rate in future periods may be impacted by many factors, including our geographic mix of income and changes in tax laws.
- We recognized an income tax benefit of $3.4 million in the three months ended April 2, 2017 as a result of generating tax credits, primarily from the implementation of a foreign tax credit planning strategy.
- Foreign tax rate differences reduced our income tax expense by approximately $2.9 million in the three months ended April 2, 2017.
The statutory tax rates associated with our foreign earnings generally were lower than the 2017 statutory U.S. tax rate of 35%.
This had the greatest impact on our income before taxes that is generated in Germany, Canada, and the Netherlands, which have statutory tax rates of approximately 28%, 26%, and 25%, respectively.
converted, each share of Preferred Stock will automatically convert into common stock on or around July 15, 2019 into between 120.46 and 132.50 shares of Belden common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.
This represents a range of 6.2 million to 6.9 million shares of Belden common stock to be issued upon conversion.
The number of shares of Belden common stock issuable upon the mandatory conversion of the Preferred Stock will be determined based upon the volume-weighted average price of Belden’s common stock over the 20 day trading period beginning on, and including, the 22nd scheduled trading day prior to July 15, 2019.
The net proceeds from this offering were approximately $501 million.
With respect to dividend and liquidation rights, the Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock and junior to all of our existing and future indebtedness.
During each of the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, the Preferred Stock accrued $8.7 million of dividends.
On May 25, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program, which allows us to purchase up to $200.0 million of our common stock through open market repurchases, negotiated transactions, or other means, in accordance with applicable securities laws and other restrictions.
This program is funded with cash on hand and cash flows from operating activities.
The program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended at any time at the discretion of the Company.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we repurchased 1.1 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $75.3 million and an average price per share of $71.67.
On March 27, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the redemption of all outstanding preferred share purchase rights issued pursuant to the then existing Rights Agreement (commonly known as a “poison pill”).
Under the former Rights Agreement, one right was attached to each outstanding share of common stock.
The rights were redeemed at a redemption price of $0.01 per right, payable in cash.
The redemption payment was made on April 6, 2018 to the holders of the rights as of the close of business on March 27, 2018.
We accrued approximately $0.4 million for the redemption of the Rights Agreement as of April 1, 2018.
On April 5, 2018, we repurchased the remaining €56.9 million of the €200.0 million 2023 Notes outstanding as well as $11.3 million of the $200.0 million 2024 Notes outstanding, and we expect to recognize a loss on debt extinguishment of approximately $3.0 million in the second quarter.
Item 1: Legal Proceedings
PPC Broadband, Inc. v. Corning Optical Communications RF, LLC - On July 5, 2011, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, PPC Broadband, Inc. (“PPC”), filed an action for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of New York against Corning Optical Communications RF LLC (“Corning”).
The Complaint alleged that Corning infringed two of PPC’s patents - U.S. Patent Nos.
6,558,194 and 6,848,940 - each entitled “Connector and Method of Operation.” In July 2015, a jury found that Corning willfully infringed both patents.
In November 2016, following a series of post-trial motions, the trial judge issued rulings for a total judgment in our favor of approximately $61.3 million.
In December 2016, Corning appealed the case to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance, without written opinion, of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded about $61.8 million as a result.
On April 12, 2018, Corning filed a petition for re-hearing.
We have not recorded any amounts in our consolidated financial statements related to this matter.
We are also a party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions that are incidental to our operations.
In our opinion, the proceedings and actions in which we are involved should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, or cash flows.
However, since the trends and outcome of this litigation are inherently uncertain, we cannot give absolute assurance regarding the future resolution of such litigation, or that such litigation may not become material in the future.
Item 1A: Risk Factors
There have been no material changes with respect to risk factors as previously disclosed in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
