PART II OTHER INFORMATION
Item 1: Legal Proceedings
PPC Broadband, Inc. v. Corning Optical Communications RF, LLC - On July 5, 2011, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, PPC Broadband, Inc. (“PPC”), filed an action for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of New York against Corning Optical Communications RF LLC (“Corning”).
The Complaint alleged that Corning infringed two of PPC’s patents - U.S. Patent Nos.
6,558,194 and 6,848,940 - each entitled “Connector and Method of Operation.” In July 2015, a jury found that Corning willfully infringed both patents.
In November 2016, following a series of post-trial motions, the trial judge issued rulings for a total judgment in our favor of approximately $61.3 million.
In December 2016, Corning appealed the case to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
In March 2018, a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a Rule 36 Affirmance, without written opinion, of the District Court's final judgment that Corning, among other things, willfully infringed the PPC universal compression patents at issue in the case, and that PPC should be awarded about $61.8 million as a result.
On April 12, 2018, Corning filed a petition for re-hearing.
We have not recorded any amounts in our consolidated financial statements related to this matter.
We are also a party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions that are incidental to our operations.
In our opinion, the proceedings and actions in which we are involved should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, or cash flows.
However, since the trends and outcome of this litigation are inherently uncertain, we cannot give absolute assurance regarding the future resolution of such litigation, or that such litigation may not become material in the future.
Item 1A: Risk Factors
There have been no material changes with respect to risk factors as previously disclosed in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Set forth below is information regarding our stock repurchases for the three months ended April 1, 2018 (in thousands, except per share amounts).
Item 6: Exhibits
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
