fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.
The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018.


item1.txt
Item 1A.


item2.txt
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
In the current quarter, the growth in operating income in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue and gross profit dollar growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products.
We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, and fund strategic acquisitions.
These decreases were partially offset by the year over year increase in net income of $10.8 million and other non-cash adjustments to net income of $14.9 million.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.9% against the Taiwan Dollar and weakened 2.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $5.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 1.9% against the Euro, resulting in a loss of $7.8 million.
These decreases were partially offset by the year over year increase in net income of $10.8 million and other non-cash adjustments to net income of $14.9 million.
The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors, and also maintains relationships with many original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
Advertising expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
Operating income increased 6% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.7% against the Euro and 3.7% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $8.8 million and $2.0 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.0% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $12.7 million.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors, and also maintains relationships with many original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
Operating income increased 6% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year.
The remaining net currency gain of $1.1 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.
The $80.0 million decrease in cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to decreased net purchases of marketable securities of $73.2 million and cash payments for acquisitions of $9.4 million, partially offset by $2.6 million net cash used in other activities.
The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors, and also maintains relationships with many original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.


item4.txt
 Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
 Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).


part2.txt
 Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
 Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities
 Exhibit 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
 Exhibit 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


