fls.txt
The Company will not update any forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report to reflect future events or developments.


item1.txt
Changes to trade regulations, including trade restrictions, sanctions, or tariffs, could significantly harm our results of operations.
Changes to trade regulations, including trade restrictions, sanctions, or tariffs, could significantly harm our results of operations.


item2.txt
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross margin declined in the auto segment, as discussed above.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the second quarter of 2017 at 27% and declined to 20% in the second quarter of 2018.
Advertising expense increased 4% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
Outdoor segment revenue increases were primarily driven by significant growth in the wearable category.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the second quarter of 2017 at 27% and declined to 20% in the second quarter of 2018.
The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant.
The fitness segment revenues increase was primarily driven by strong sales in advanced wearables and cycling products.
The outdoor segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from increased promotional activity during the second quarter of 2018.
In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares.
Gross profit dollars in the 26-week period ended June 30, 2018 increased 11% while gross margin increased 100 basis points when compared to the year-ago period.
The remaining net currency loss of $5.2 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 18%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
Gross profit dollars in the second quarter of 2018 increased 8% while gross margin increased 30 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 18%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
Total unit sales in the first half of 2018 decreased to 6,739 when compared to the total unit sales of 7,003 in the first half of 2017.


item3.txt
There have been no material changes during the 13-week and 26-week periods ended June 30, 2018 in the risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K related to market sensitivity, inflation, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
 Exhibit 32.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.
In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares.
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd.


