fls.txt
The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017.


item1.txt
The imposition of additional U.S. or foreign governmental controls, regulations that create new or enhanced restrictions on free trade, trade sanctions, or tariffs, particularly those applicable to goods imported from Taiwan or the People’s Republic of China, could have substantial adverse effects on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.


item2.txt
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
In the aviation segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago period.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by increased sales across most product lines within the segment.
The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by growth in wearables.
Outdoor was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 26% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to 25% in the third quarter of 2017.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14% in absolute dollars and increased 70 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period.
The $13.8 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling within the 39-weeks ended September 30, 2017.
The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions.
The $3.4 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018.
Advertising expense decreased 6% in absolute dollars when compared to the year-ago period.
The aviation segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong growth across all product lines.
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
The remaining net currency gain of $1.5 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor segment.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
In absolute dollars, research and development expense increased $43.6 million when compared with the year-ago period and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue.
The outdoor segment decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to product mix.
As of September 29, 2018, we had $2.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.


item3.txt
 Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures
 Exhibit 31.2  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
 Exhibit 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


