fls.txt
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.


item1.txt
It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be.


item2.txt
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue decreased 130 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 7% in absolute dollars.
In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported.
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars.
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
As discussed in Note 13 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Switzerland corporate tax reform was approved by public referendum in May 2019 and enacted in October 2019.
As discussed in Note 13 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Switzerland corporate tax reform was approved by public referendum in May 2019 and enacted in October 2019.
Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the first three quarters of 2019 compared to 24% in the first three quarters of 2018.
See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 3.8% against the Euro and 3.2% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $9.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $1.2 million.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 3.8% against the Euro and 3.2% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $9.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $1.2 million.
Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor, marine, and aviation segments.
This was more than offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 3.2% against the Euro and 3.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $7.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, and additional net currency losses of $8.7 million related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period.
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.
The $12.6 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2019 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 28, 2019.
Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2019 increased to 3,659 when compared to total unit sales of 3,527 in the third quarter of 2018.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
A portion of license expense favorability in the auto segment is expected to continue for the remainder of the year.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $29.9 million in the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $17.1 million in the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $13.6 million.
Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the first three quarters of 2019 compared to 24% in the first three quarters of 2018.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 1.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


