fls.txt
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.


item1.txt
Item 1.Financial Statements The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
1.Description of Business and Basis of Presentation Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”) and was incorporated in 2001 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by the Company in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company’s consolidated financial position as of November 30, 2017, the consolidated comprehensive income for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, and the consolidated cash flows for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016.
No material reclassifications occurred during the current period.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 effective as of September 1, 2017.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets.
If so, the transaction does not qualify as a business.
The Company intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019, and the provisions of ASU 2016-15 are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statement disclosures.


item2.txt
The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) and its subsidiaries as of November 30, 2017 and for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016.
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
As of November 30, 2017, the Company operates 19 manufacturing facilities and seven distribution facilities along with one warehouse to serve its extensive customer base.
No acquisitions were completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 or fiscal 2017.
Based on its cash on hand, availability under existing financing arrangements, and current projections of cash flow from operations, the Company believes that it will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months.
No shares have been purchased under this plan as of November 30, 2017.
Additionally, management believes that the Company’s cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, borrowing capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company.
The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, as well as proceeds from the exercise of stock options, to fund operations, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, repurchase Company stock, and pay dividends.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms.


part2.txt
Additionally, the Board determined that the Company will hold future non-binding, advisory votes of stockholders to approve the compensation of the named executive officers every year, consistent with the results of the vote at the annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018.
Mr. Harnett advised the Company that his decision to retire did not involve any disagreement with the Company.
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.


