fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Our lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
GAAP”) to present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position as of November 30, 2018, our consolidated comprehensive income for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, and our consolidated cash flows for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017.
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
No acquisitions were completed during the current quarter.
On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, we acquired all of the equity interests of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”).
Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred.
If so, the transaction does not qualify as a business.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
We received $0.6 million from corporate-owned life insurance policies during the three months ended November 30, 2018 and received no proceeds from these policies during the three months ended November 30, 2017.
The remaining provisions of ASU 2016-15 do not apply to us for the periods presented.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.


item2.txt
Also, please refer to the Acuity Brands' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 25, 2018 (“Form 10-K”).
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us,” or similar references).
IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and internationally.
On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, we acquired Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
No acquisitions were completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Our principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from our business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings.
For the first three months of fiscal 2019, $14.0 million was invested, primarily for new and enhanced information technology capabilities, equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements.
In March 2018, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) authorized the repurchase of up to six million shares of the Company's common stock.
We believe that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on our cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under financing arrangements.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 5.Other Information as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm; and (iii) approved, on an advisory basis, the Company's named executive officer compensation.
On January 4, 2019, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) reduced the size of the Board from eleven members to ten following the retirement of Norman H. Wesley from the Board.
Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.


