fls.txt
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.


item1.txt
Item 1.Financial Statements The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by the Company in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) and present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company’s consolidated financial position as of February 28, 2018, the consolidated comprehensive income for the three and six months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017, and the consolidated cash flows for the six months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017.
No material reclassifications occurred during the current period.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
There was one acquisition during the six months ended February 28, 2018.
Preliminary amounts related to the acquisition accounting are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of February 28, 2018.


item2.txt
Also, please refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 26, 2017 (“Form 10-K”).
As of February 28, 2018, the Company operates 19 manufacturing facilities and seven distribution facilities along with one warehouse to serve its extensive customer base.
The Company does not consider acquisitions a critical element of its strategy but seeks opportunities to expand and enhance its portfolio of solutions, including the acquisition of Lucid Design Group, Inc. (“Lucid”) on February 12, 2018, using cash on hand.
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.
As of February 28, 2018, 1.2 million shares had been purchased under this authorization.
In March 2018, the Board authorized the repurchase of six million shares, which includes the remaining 0.8 million shares available for repurchase under the June 2017 authorization.
Management believes that the Company will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on its cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under existing financing arrangements, as well as potential additional borrowings for stock repurchases.
Additionally, management believes that the Company’s cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, future borrowings and capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company.
The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, as well as proceeds from the exercise of stock options, to fund operations, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, repurchase Company stock, and pay dividends.
The Company’s cash position at February 28, 2018 was $229.8 million, a decrease of $81.3 million from August 31, 2017.
Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the current period primarily to repurchase 1.2 million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock for $194.3 million, to fund acquisitions of $26.4 million, to fund capital expenditures of $20.9 million, to pay dividends to stockholders of $10.9 million, and to pay employee taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $6.7 million.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 5.Other Information The dividend is payable on May 1, 2018 to stockholders of record on April 17, 2018.
Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.


