MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

 Certain statements in this report may constitute “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The terms “may,” “should,” “could,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “continues,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “objective,” “plan,” “potential,” “project” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on management’s current expectations, intentions or beliefs and are subject to a number of factors, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences or that might otherwise impact the business include the risk factors set forth in Item 1A, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on July 31, 2017.
We undertake no obligation to update any such factor or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
In addition, while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information.
Accordingly, stockholders should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report.
Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts, or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility.
INTRODUCTION  



 Business Overview  

 Richardson Electronics, Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tubes and related consumables; power conversion and RF and microwave components; high value flat panel detector solutions, replacement parts, tubes and service training for diagnostic imaging equipment; and customized display solutions.
We serve customers in the alternative energy, healthcare, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific and semiconductor markets.
The Company’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and “engineered solutions” based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities.
The Company provides solutions and adds value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics, and aftermarket technical service and repair through its global infrastructure.
Our products include electron tubes and related components, microwave generators, subsystems used in semiconductor manufacturing, and visual technology solutions.
These products are used to control, switch or amplify electrical power signals, or are used as display devices in a variety of industrial, commercial, medical, and communication applications.
Power and Microwave Technologies Group (“PMT”) combines our core engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tube business with new RF and power technologies.
As a manufacturer and authorized distributor, PMT’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and engineered solutions based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities.
We provide solutions and add value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics, and aftermarket technical service and repair—all through our existing global infrastructure.
PMT’s focus is on products for power, RF and microwave applications for customers in alternative energy, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific, and semiconductor markets.
PMT focuses on various applications including broadcast transmission, CO2 laser cutting, diagnostic imaging, dielectric and induction heating, high energy transfer, high voltage switching, plasma, power conversion, radar, and radiation oncology.
