Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report.
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K.
Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-year classifications.
Reclassifications include certain human resources and IT costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in revenue.
Segment gross margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was comparable with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 as the impact of a less favorable mix of program and product sales was offset by productivity savings.
The increase in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher employment and distribution costs.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
Segment gross margin percentage for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 decreased slightly compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 primarily due to a less favorable mix of program revenue and product sales, mostly offset by productivity savings.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
The increases in segment gross margin and gross margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to higher revenue, incremental pension income and a more favorable mix of program revenue.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
business in the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and a $12 million non-cash charge from an adjustment for deferred compensation in the quarter ended December 29, 2017, partially offset by the absence in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 of any Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $38 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2017.
As described in more detail in Note B — Discontinued Operations in the Notes, IT Services and CapRock are reported as discontinued operations in this Report.
•$79 million used for additions of property, plant and equipment.
•$313 million of net repayment of borrowings, including $248 million of repayment of our variable-rate term loans and $250 million of repayment of the entire outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 4.25% notes due October 1, 2016;
•$20 million used in other financing activities.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
Our ability to make principal payments or pay interest on or refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the defense, government and other markets we serve and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.
Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans.
Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds.
Failure to satisfy the minimum funding thresholds could result in restrictions on our ability to amend the plans or make benefit payments.
With respect to our U.S. qualified pension plans, we intend to contribute annually not less than the required minimum funding thresholds.
We made voluntary contributions to our U.S. qualified pension plans of $300 million and $400 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, respectively.
As a result, we anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2018.
During the first three quarters of fiscal 2018, we used $197 million to repurchase 1,466,713 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $134.36, including commissions of $.01 per share.
During the first three quarters of fiscal 2017, we used $460 million to repurchase 4,408,469 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $104.38, including the $350 million we paid on February 6, 2017 for 2,929,879 and 277,357 shares of our common stock we received in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2017, respectively, under a fixed-dollar accelerated share repurchase transaction agreement we entered into February 6, 2017.
In the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, $10 million and $20 million, respectively, in shares of our common stock were delivered to us or withheld by us to satisfy withholding taxes on employee share-based awards.
Shares purchased by us are cancelled and retired.
As of March 30, 2018, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $776 million under our repurchase program, which does not have an expiration date.
Repurchases under our repurchase program are expected to be funded with available cash and commercial paper and may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof.
The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Additional information regarding our repurchase program is set forth in this Report under Part II.
“Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”
On August 25, 2017, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.53 per share to $.57 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $2.28 per share, which was our sixteenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate.
Our annualized cash dividend rate in fiscal 2017 was $2.12 per share.
There can be no assurances that our annualized cash dividend rate will continue to increase.
We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends.
At March 30, 2018, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2015 Credit Agreement.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the issuance and sale of $250 million in aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020 and used the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay in full the $253 million in remaining outstanding indebtedness under the 5-year tranche of our $1.3 billion senior unsecured term loan facility pursuant to our Term Loan Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2015.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the issuance and sale of $300 million in aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due February 27, 2019 and used the proceeds to make a voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans.
•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that is held by, and material to, the registrant, where such entity provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the registrant, or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with the registrant.
As of March 30, 2018, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above.
In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements.
A significant portion of our business is derived from development and production contracts.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized using the POC method, generally based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion under the contract (i.e., the “cost-to-cost” method) or the ratio of actual units delivered to estimated total units to be delivered under the contract (i.e., the “units-of-delivery” method) with consideration given for risk of performance and estimated profit.
The majority of the revenue in our Space and Intelligence Systems and Electronic Systems segments (and to a certain extent, revenue in our Communication Systems segment) relates to development and production contracts, and the POC method of revenue recognition is primarily used for these contracts.
Change orders, claims or other items that may change the scope of a development or production contract are included in contract value only when the value can be reliably estimated and realization is probable.
Possible incentives or penalties and award fees applicable to performance on development and production contracts are considered in estimating contract value and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance.
Incentive provisions that increase earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs.
We are party to certain contracts with incentive provisions or award fees that are subject to uncertainty until the conclusion of the contract, and our customers may be entitled to reclaim and receive previous award fee payments.
Under the POC method of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each development and production contract over its period of performance.
Recognition of profit on fixed-price development and production contracts requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion.
The estimated profit or loss on a development or production contract is equal to the difference between the estimated contract value and the estimated total cost at completion.
Due to the long-term nature of many of our programs, developing the estimated total cost at completion often requires judgment.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance, the risk and impact of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer and the recoverability of any claims outside the original development or production contract included in the estimate to complete.
At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks.
Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion.
Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract.
As the cost-reimbursable contract progresses, our estimates of total contract value may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive higher or lower than expected award fees.
Anticipated losses on development and production contracts or programs in progress are charged to operating income when identified.
We have not made any material changes in the methodologies used to recognize revenue on development and production contracts or to estimate our costs related to development and production contracts in the past three fiscal years.
In these arrangements, judgment is required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the individual deliverables represent separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and the timing of revenue recognition for each deliverable.
If we determine that individual deliverables represent separate units of accounting, we recognize the revenue associated with each unit of accounting separately, and contract revenue is allocated among the separate units of accounting at the inception of the arrangement based on relative selling price.
If options or change orders materially change the scope of work or price of the contract subsequent to inception, we reevaluate and adjust our prior conclusions regarding units of accounting and allocation of contract revenue as necessary.
The allocation of selling price among the separate units of accounting may impact the timing of revenue recognition, but will not change the total revenue recognized on the arrangement.
We establish the selling price used for each deliverable based on the vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of selling price, or third-party evidence (“TPE”) of selling price if VSOE of selling price is not available, or best estimate of selling price (“BESP”) if neither VSOE nor TPE of selling price is available.
In determining TPE of selling price, we evaluate competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately.
Generally, comparable pricing of our products to those of our competitors with similar functionality cannot be obtained.
In determining BESP, we consider both market data and entity-specific factors, including market conditions, the geographies in which our products are sold, our competitive position and strategy, and our profit objectives.
The FASB has issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and will be effective for us in fiscal 2019.
See Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes for additional information.
Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as the U.S. Government’s inability to complete its budget process and consequently having to operate pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation.
•We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.
•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.
•Disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.
•Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.
•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.
•We must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us.
•In connection with the Vectrus spin-off, Vectrus indemnified Exelis for certain liabilities and Exelis indemnified Vectrus for certain liabilities.
This indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by Vectrus and Vectrus may be unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us in the future.
•The Vectrus spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and Federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.
•The ITT Corporation (“ITT”) spin-off of Exelis may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and Federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.
“Risk Factors” and in Part II.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K and in Part II.
“Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.
