Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
General.
matters.
or the extent of any real risk of court or arbitral awards.
consider to be probable and that can be reasonably estimated.
and legal costs generally are expensed when incurred.
At September 27, 2019, our accrual for the potential resolution of lawsuits, claims or proceedings that we consider probable of being decided unfavorably to us was not material.
Based on available information, in the opinion of management, settlements, arbitration awards and final judgments, if any, that are considered probable of being rendered against us in litigation or arbitration in existence at September 27, 2019 are reserved against or would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
On July 1, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $4 billion share repurchase authorization (“2019 Repurchase Program”), replacing our prior share repurchase program.
Repurchases under the new program may be made through open-market transactions, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof.
During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we repurchased 3.6 million shares of our common stock under our 2019 Repurchase Program.
Shares repurchased by us are canceled and retired.
The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases by us of our common stock during the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
