Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K.
•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, PNT, and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics.
The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
As described in more detail in Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes, we entered into the Merger Agreement with L3 and Merger Sub on October 12, 2018, pursuant to which we and L3 have agreed to combine in an all-stock merger of equals.
We and L3 continue to expect the merger to close in the previously announced time frame of mid-calendar year 2019, although we can give no assurances regarding the timing or occurrence of closing.
See Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes for further information.
The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher volume and operational efficiencies, partially offset by program and product mix.
Segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to program and product mix.
The decreases in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected management of expenses on higher revenue.
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
On April 4, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we will sell our Night Vision business.
The increase in segment gross margin, decrease in segment gross margin percentage and decreases in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to the same reasons noted above regarding this segment for the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increase in segment gross margin in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher segment revenue, favorable mix and productivity savings.
The increase in segment gross margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to favorable mix and productivity savings.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increases in segment gross margin, segment gross margin percentage and segment ESA expenses in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to the same reasons noted above regarding this segment for the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increase in segment operating income and slight decrease of segment operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
charges related to our decision to transition and exit a commercial air-to-ground LTE radio communications line of business in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and a $12 million adjustment for deferred compensation in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by $29 million of L3 merger-related transaction and integration costs in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019.
•$104 million used for additions of property, plant and equipment.
•$79 million used for additions of property, plant and equipment.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties (including the recent, or any potential successive, U.S. Government shutdown) and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
Our ability to make principal payments or pay interest on or refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the defense, government and other markets we serve and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.
Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans.
Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds.
Failure to satisfy the minimum funding thresholds could result in restrictions on our ability to amend the plans or make benefit payments.
With respect to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans, we intend to contribute annually not less than the required minimum funding thresholds.
We made voluntary contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans of $300 million and $400 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, respectively.
As a result, we anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2019.
During the first three quarters of fiscal 2019, we used $200 million to repurchase 1,219,750 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $163.99, including commissions of $.02 per share.
first three quarters of fiscal 2018, we used $197 million to repurchase 1,466,713 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $134.36, including commissions of $.01 per share.
In the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, $24 million and $10 million, respectively, in shares of our common stock were delivered to us or withheld by us to satisfy withholding taxes on employee share-based awards.
Shares purchased by us are cancelled and retired.
As of March 29, 2019, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $501 million under our repurchase program, which does not have an expiration date.
Repurchases under our repurchase program are expected to be funded with available cash and commercial paper and may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof.
The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we will not make repurchases of our common stock at least until after closing of the pending merger, without L3’s consent.
Additional information regarding our repurchase program is set forth in this Report under Part II.
“Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”
On August 25, 2018, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.570 per share to $.685 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $2.740 per share, which was our seventeenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate.
Our annualized cash dividend rate in fiscal 2018 was $2.280 per share.
There can be no assurances that our annualized cash dividend rate will continue to increase.
We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends.
We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2018 Credit Agreement at March 29, 2019, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2018 Credit Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00.
At March 29, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2018 Credit Agreement but we had $100 million in borrowings outstanding under our commercial paper program that was supported by the 2018 Credit Facility.
As of March 29, 2019, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above.
In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements.
In connection with the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, we have a contractual obligation to issue 1.30 shares of our common stock for each share of L3 common stock outstanding at closing of the pending merger, and we expect to incur other expenses, such as transaction costs, other payments required as a result of the merger and integration and post-closing restructuring costs.
See Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for further information.
In addition, we may have obligations under other contractual arrangements that are accelerated or otherwise impacted as a result of the merger.
A significant portion of our business is derived from development and production contracts.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized over time, typically using the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, whereby we measure our progress toward completion of performance obligations based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to estimated costs at completion under the contract.
Because costs incurred represent work performed, we believe this method best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on our best estimate of the consideration we expect to receive, and this includes assumptions regarding variable consideration, such as award and incentive fees.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain negotiated performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We include such estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
We also recognize revenue from contracts with multiple performance obligations.
For these contracts, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation.
The standalone selling price represents the amount for which we would sell the good or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not sold as bundled sale with any other products or services).
The allocation of transaction price among separate performance obligations may impact the timing of revenue recognition but will not change the total revenue recognized on the contract.
Our contracts with the U.S. Government, including foreign military sales contracts, are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations and the prices of our contract deliverables are typically based on our estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations.
In our non-U.S. Government contracts, we also generally use the expected cost plus a margin approach to determine standalone selling price.
In addition, we determine standalone selling price for certain contracts that are commercial in nature based on observable selling prices.
In determining the appropriate margin under the cost plus margin approach, we consider historical margins on similar products sold to similar customers or within similar geographies where objective evidence is available.
Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as any inability of the U.S. Government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation.
•We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.
•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.
•Disputes with our subcontractors or the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.
•Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.
•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.
•We must attract and retain key employees, and any failure to do so could seriously harm us.
“Risk Factors” and in Part II.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K and in Part II.
“Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive.
For further information concerning risk factors, see Part II.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.
