fls.txt
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to a number of uncertainties and risks, including the risks described in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the "2018 Annual Report") and other unforeseen risks.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included, unless otherwise disclosed.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
001-32253), which was filed on May 30, 2018 (the “2018 Annual Report”).
EnerSys (the “Company”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The four quarters in fiscal 2019 end on July 1, 2018, September 30, 2018, December 30, 2018, and March 31, 2019, respectively.
The four quarters in fiscal 2018 ended on July 2, 2017, October 1, 2017, December 31, 2017, and March 31, 2018, respectively.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
The Company recognizes revenue when (or as) performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of the performance obligation to a customer.
Each customer purchase order sets forth the transaction price for the products and services purchased under that arrangement.
Service revenues related to the work performed for the Company’s customers by its maintenance technicians generally represent a separate and distinct performance obligation.
Methods used by the Company to measure progress toward completion include labor hours, costs incurred and units of production.
The Company's typical payment terms are 30 days and sales arrangements do not contain any significant financing component for its customers.


item2.txt
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
These rules require supplemental explanation and reconciliation, which is provided in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
EnerSys’ management uses the non-GAAP measures “primary working capital” and “primary working capital percentage” in its evaluation of business segment cash flow and financial position performance.
Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries.
We also manufacture, market and distribute products such as battery chargers, power equipment, battery accessories, and outdoor cabinet enclosures.
•Asia, which includes Asia, Australia and Oceania, with our segment headquarters in Singapore.
•Reserve power products are used for backup power for the continuous operation of critical applications in telecommunications systems, uninterruptible power systems, or “UPS” applications for computer and computer-controlled systems, and other specialty power applications, including medical and security systems, premium starting, lighting and ignition applications, in switchgear, electrical control systems used in electric utilities, large-scale energy storage, energy pipelines, in commercial aircraft, satellites, military aircraft, submarines, ships and tactical vehicles.
•Motive power products are used to provide power for electric industrial forklifts used in manufacturing, warehousing and other material handling applications as well as mining equipment, diesel locomotive starting and other rail equipment.
Recent indicators continue to suggest a mixed trend in economic activity among the different geographical regions.


item3.txt
We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.


