fls.txt
EnerSys and its representatives may, from time to time, make written or verbal forward-looking statements, including statements contained in EnerSys’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its reports to stockholders.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included, unless otherwise disclosed.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
001-32253), which was filed on May 30, 2017 (the “2017 Annual Report”).
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The four quarters in fiscal 2018 end on July 2, 2017, October 1, 2017, December 31, 2017, and March 31, 2018, respectively.
The four quarters in fiscal 2017 ended on July 3, 2016, October 2, 2016, January 1, 2017, and March 31, 2017, respectively.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)”, which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e.
This update requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
The fair values of lead forward contracts are calculated using observable prices for lead as quoted on the London Metal Exchange (“LME”) and, therefore, were classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy, as described in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in its 2017 Annual Report.


item2.txt
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”) provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of EnerSys.
These rules require supplemental explanation and reconciliation, which is provided in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
EnerSys’ management uses the non-GAAP measures “primary working capital” and “primary working capital percentage” in its evaluation of business segment cash flow and financial position performance.
Management believes that this non-GAAP supplemental information is helpful in understanding the Company’s ongoing operating results.
EnerSys (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) is the world’s largest manufacturer, marketer and distributor of industrial batteries.
We also manufacture, market and distribute products such as battery chargers, power equipment, battery accessories, and outdoor cabinet enclosures.
•Asia, which includes Asia, Australia and Oceania, with our segment headquarters in Singapore.
•Reserve power products are used for backup power for the continuous operation of critical applications in telecommunications systems, uninterruptible power systems, or “UPS” applications for computer and computer-controlled systems, and other specialty power applications, including medical and security systems, premium starting, lighting and ignition applications, in switchgear, electrical control systems used in electric utilities, large-scale energy storage, energy pipelines, in commercial aircraft, satellites, military aircraft, submarines, ships and tactical vehicles.
•Motive power products are used to provide power for electric industrial forklifts used in manufacturing, warehousing and other material handling applications as well as mining equipment, diesel locomotive starting and other rail equipment.
Recent indicators continue to suggest a mixed trend in economic activity among the different geographical regions.
North America and EMEA are experiencing moderate economic growth.
Over the past year, on a consolidated basis, we have experienced rising commodity costs.


item3.txt
We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.


