fls.txt
our competition; (ii.)


item1.txt
Daktronics, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) is the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- to 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year.
The nine months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017 contained operating results for 39 weeks.
The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the equity method was $3,303 and $2,678 at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
Cash paid for investments in affiliates is included in the Purchases of equity investment line item in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
For the nine months ended January 27, 2018, our share of the losses of our affiliates was $401.
The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the cost method was $42 at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which reduces the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
Adoption of ASU 2016-15 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
our financing plans; (iii.)
Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit.
Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 4.
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of large project orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
Net sales and gross profit percentages also have fluctuated due to other seasonal factors, including the impact of holidays, which primarily affects our third fiscal quarter.
Large product orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins.
As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be booked until all required contractual documents and deposits are received.
profitability, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales or net income.
Backlog can fluctuate due to large order booking timing and seasonality.
Backlog is not a measure defined by GAAP, and our methodology for determining backlog may vary from the methodology used by other companies in determining their backlog amounts.
Basis of Presentation and Summary of Critical Accounting Policies" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.


item3.txt
Through January 27, 2018, most of our net sales were denominated in U.S. dollars, and our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes on net sales had not been significant.
Over the long term, net sales to international markets are expected to increase as a percentage of total net sales and, consequently, a greater portion of our business could be denominated in foreign currencies.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.


