fls.txt



item1.txt
Risk Factors.
The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively or delayed, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits.
Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process.
Although we have completed the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including restructuring expenses and the payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.
For example, a significant portion of planned cost synergies relate to headcount reductions, primarily in foreign jurisdictions where the labor laws are complex.
These annual limitations will result in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of these carryforwards.
However, Cohu cannot give any assurance that the Merger will actually be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share.
In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”.
The total cost of the Merger will be allocated to the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective estimated fair values.
●   dissolve, liquidate, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all the assets of us and our subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to, another person.
In addition, our obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured, on a first-priority basis, and such security interests could be enforced in the event of default by the collateral agent for the Credit Agreement.


item2.txt
This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute.
Risk Factors”.
The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect management’s outlook at any other point in time.
Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems, semiconductor automated test equipment and bare-board printed circuit board test systems used by global semiconductor and electronics manufacturers and test subcontractors.
As a result, our consumable products provide a more stable recurring source of revenue and generally do not have the same degree of cyclicality as our capital equipment products.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt
Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote.
Risk Factors.
Cohu acquired Xcerra Corporation (“Xcerra”) on October 1, 2018, at which time Xcerra became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu (the “Merger”).
The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively or delayed, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits.
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process.
Although we have completed the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including restructuring expenses and the payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.
For example, a significant portion of planned cost synergies relate to headcount reductions, primarily in foreign jurisdictions where the labor laws are complex.
Any delays in implementing such headcount reductions, or increased costs to implement, would materially impact the cost synergies achieved.
Cohu incurred $9.8 million and $0.4 million of acquisition-related costs, and $37.8 million and $9.1 million of restructuring charges, for the Xcerra acquisition during fiscal year 2018 and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively.
Cohu’s ability to utilize Xcerra’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards is severely limited.
Uncertainties underlie Cohu’s expectation that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share.


