fls.txt



item1.txt
Risk Factors.
Pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) dated as of May 7, 2018 among Cohu, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Cohu”), Xcerra Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (“Xcerra”), and Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu (“Merger Sub”), Merger Sub merged with and into Xcerra (the “Merger”), with Xcerra surviving such merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu.
The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits.
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process.
Although we have completed the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including restructuring expenses and the payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.
Cohu incurred $5.2 million of acquisition related costs for the Xcerra transaction in the first nine months of 2018.
As a result of the Merger an ownership change has occurred at Xcerra and as a consequence Cohu’s ability to utilize Xcerra’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards, that were already limited due to a prior acquisition, will be subject to annual limitations as provided for in Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383.
In addition, Cohu must assess whether its operating loss and credit carryforwards are similarly limited as a result of the Merger.
Cohu believes that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will actually be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share.
In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”.


item2.txt
Item 2.
This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute.
Risk Factors”.
The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect management’s outlook at any other point in time.
Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.
The information set forth above under Note 6 contained in the "Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
Risk Factors.
Pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) dated as of May 7, 2018 among Cohu, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Cohu”), Xcerra Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (“Xcerra”), and Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu (“Merger Sub”), Merger Sub merged with and into Xcerra (the “Merger”), with Xcerra surviving such merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu.
As a result, it cannot be assured that the Merger will result in the realization of the full or any anticipated benefits.
Although we have completed the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including restructuring expenses and the payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.
Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process.
In addition, Cohu must assess whether its operating loss and credit carryforwards are similarly limited as a result of the Merger.
Cohu believes that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will actually be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share.
The total cost of the Merger will be allocated to the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective estimated fair values.
Until these allocations are completed, Cohu can only estimate the allocation of the acquisition price to the net assets acquired and the effect of the allocation on future results.
That estimate could materially change.


