The Company’s Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments are comprised of its software business organized by the nature of the Company’s software offerings and the platforms on which the products operate. The Services segment is comprised of product implementation, consulting, customer education and customer training services, including those directly related to the Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions software that the Company sells to its customers.
Amortization of capitalized contract costs is included in “Selling and marketing” expenses in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. The amount of amortization for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 was approximately $31 million and $61 million, respectively, and there was no impairment loss in relation to the costs capitalized.
The Company’s products and services can be broadly categorized as perpetual licenses to use software, term-based licenses for Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) and on-premise use of software, maintenance for perpetual and term-based on-premise licenses, and professional services. The Company’s software licenses and maintenance are for mainframe, enterprise, and SaaS computing environments.
In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting, the Company disaggregates its operations into Mainframe Solutions, Enterprise Solutions and Services segments, which is utilized by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is the Company's Chief Executive Officer, for evaluating segment performance and allocating resources.
On May 2, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) approved a restructuring plan (“Fiscal 2019 Plan”) to better align its business priorities. The Fiscal 2019 Plan comprises the termination of approximately 800 employees and global facility exits and consolidations. These actions were intended to better align the Company’s cost structure with the skills and resources required to more effectively pursue opportunities in the marketplace and execute the Company’s long-term growth strategy. Costs associated with the Fiscal 2019 Plan are presented in “Other expenses, net” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Severance and facility exit and consolidation actions under the Fiscal 2019 Plan are expected to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2019. Under the Fiscal 2019 Plan, the Company expects to incur pre-tax charges between approximately $140 million and $160 million (including severance costs between approximately $90 million and $100 million and facility exit and consolidation costs between approximately $50 million and $60 million).
The Company regularly enters into a single arrangement with a customer that includes mainframe solutions, enterprise solutions and services. The amount of contract revenue assigned to operating segments is generally based on the manner in which the proposal is made to the customer. The software product revenue assigned to the Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments is based on either (1) a list price allocation method (which allocates a discount in the total contract price to the individual products in proportion to the list price of the products); (2) allocations included within internal contract approval documents; or (3) the value for individual software products as stated in the customer contract. The price for the implementation, consulting, education and training services is separately stated in the contract and these amounts of contract revenue are assigned to the Services segment. The contract value assigned to each operating segment is then recognized in a manner consistent with the revenue recognition policies of the Company prior to the adoption of Topic 606. Accordingly, differences in segment revenue and consolidated revenue arise primarily from (a) term and perpetual software licenses that are recognized ratably under the Company’s segment policies and in its Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods prior to the adoption of Topic 606 that, after adoption of Topic 606, are recognized at a point-in-time; and (b) differences in the allocations of contract value among products and services in a contract arising from the use of a relative standalone selling price allocation method in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods after adoption of Topic 606 as compared to the aforementioned approach to assigning contract value to the Company’s segments.
The Company pays commissions for new product sales as well as for renewals of existing contracts. Commissions paid to obtain renewal contracts are not commensurate with the commissions paid for new product sales and therefore, a portion of the commissions paid for new contracts relate to future renewals.
At March 31, 2018, foreign currency contracts outstanding consisted of purchase and sale contracts with a total gross notional value of approximately $456 million and durations of less than three months. The net fair value of these contracts at March 31, 2018 was a net asset of approximately $1 million, of which approximately $2 million was included in “Other current assets” and approximately $1 million was included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.Operating expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in amortization of capitalized software costs as discussed below.
Enterprise Solutions revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue and a favorable foreign exchange effect of $4 million, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis. Enterprise Solutions operating margin for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs from prior period acquisitions and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
Mainframe Solutions revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in revenue from new sales that offset the decline in revenue contribution from renewals and, to a lesser extent, a favorable foreign exchange effect of $5 million. Mainframe Solutions operating margin for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the first half of fiscal 2019 was $251 million, representing a decrease of $84 million compared with the first half of fiscal 2018. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash collections from billings of $152 million mainly attributable to lower single installment collections and an increase in other disbursements, net of $42 million mainly from payments associated with the Fiscal 2019 Plan, partially offset by a decrease in vendor disbursements and payroll of $84 million and a decrease in income tax payments, net of $26 million compared with the year-ago period.
Enterprise Solutions revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis and an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $4 million. Enterprise Solutions operating margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs from prior period acquisitions, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom, and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
Mainframe Solutions revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in revenue from new sales that offset the decline in revenue contribution from renewals, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $5 million. Mainframe Solutions operating margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was consistent compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom.
Total revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $150 million, total revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $11 million compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
General and administrative expenses for the first half of fiscal 2019 was generally consistent compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related costs resulting from lower headcount, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom.
Total revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $264 million, total revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased $38 million compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment, as well as a favorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
Selling and marketing expenses for the first half of fiscal 2019 was generally consistent compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $16 million, selling and marketing expenses for the first half of fiscal 2019 decreased $19 million compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related costs resulting from lower headcount, partially offset by an increase in costs associated with the cancellation of our annual trade show, CA World, during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
•Enterprise Solutions revenue increased primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis and an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $4 million. Enterprise Solutions operating margin increased primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs from prior period acquisitions, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom, and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.