The Company’s Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments are comprised of its software business organized by the nature of the Company’s software offerings and the platforms on which the products operate. The Services segment is comprised of product implementation, consulting, customer education and customer training services, including those directly related to the Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions software that the Company sells to its customers.
The Company’s products and services can be broadly categorized as perpetual licenses to use software, term-based licenses for Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) and on-premise use of software, maintenance for perpetual and term-based on-premise licenses, and professional services. The Company’s software licenses and maintenance are for mainframe, enterprise, and SaaS computing environments.
In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting, the Company disaggregates its operations into Mainframe Solutions, Enterprise Solutions and Services segments, which is utilized by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is the Company's Chief Executive Officer, for evaluating segment performance and allocating resources.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, approximately 1 million shares and 2 million shares of Company common stock underlying restricted stock awards (“RSAs”) and options to purchase common stock were excluded from the calculation because their effect on income per share was anti-dilutive during the respective periods. Weighted average RSAs of approximately 5 million shares and 5 million shares for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were considered participating securities in the calculation of net income allocable to common stockholders.
On May 2, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) approved a restructuring plan (“Fiscal 2019 Plan”) to better align its business priorities. The Fiscal 2019 Plan comprises the termination of approximately 800 employees and global facility exits and consolidations. The Company intends to fill many of the positions involved in the Fiscal 2019 Plan with new employees who have different skill sets. These actions are intended to better align the Company’s cost structure with the skills and resources required to more effectively pursue opportunities in the marketplace and execute the Company’s long-term growth strategy. Costs associated with the Fiscal 2019 Plan are presented in “Other expenses, net” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Severance and facility exit and consolidation actions under the Fiscal 2019 Plan are expected to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2019. Under the Fiscal 2019 Plan, the Company expects to incur a pre-tax charge between approximately $140 million and $160 million (including severance costs between approximately $90 million and $100 million and facility exit and consolidation costs between approximately $50 million and $60 million).
•We may experience a departure of employees.
The Company regularly enters into a single arrangement with a customer that includes mainframe solutions, enterprise solutions and services. The amount of contract revenue assigned to operating segments is generally based on the manner in which the proposal is made to the customer. The software product revenue assigned to the Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments is based on either (1) a list price allocation method (which allocates a discount in the total contract price to the individual products in proportion to the list price of the products); (2) allocations included within internal contract approval documents; or (3) the value for individual software products as stated in the customer contract. The price for the implementation, consulting, education and training services is separately stated in the contract and these amounts of contract revenue are assigned to the Services segment. The contract value assigned to each operating segment is then recognized in a manner consistent with the revenue recognition policies of the Company prior to the adoption of Topic 606. Accordingly, differences in segment revenue and consolidated revenue arise primarily from (a) term and perpetual software licenses that are recognized ratably under the Company’s segment policies and in its Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods prior to the adoption of Topic 606 that, after adoption of Topic 606, are recognized at a point-in-time; and (b) differences in the allocations of contract value among products and services in a contract arising from the use of a relative standalone selling price allocation method in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods after adoption of Topic 606 as compared to the aforementioned approach to assigning contract value to the Company’s segments.
The difference in the opening and closing balances of the Company’s contract assets and deferred revenue primarily results from the timing difference between the Company’s performance and the customer’s payment. The Company fulfills its obligations under a contract with a customer by transferring products and services in exchange for consideration from the customer. The Company recognizes a contract asset when it transfers products or services to a customer and the right to consideration is conditional on something other than the passage of time. Accounts receivable are recorded when the customer has been billed or the right to consideration is unconditional. The Company recognizes deferred revenue when it has received consideration or an amount of consideration is due from the customer and the Company has a future obligation to transfer products or services. Deferred revenue includes amounts billed or collected and advanced payments on contracts which may include termination for convenience clauses. The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended June 30, 2018 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at April 1, 2018 was $434 million.Operating expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in other expenses, net attributable to the Fiscal 2019 Plan. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in selling and marketing expenses as discussed below.
Product development and enhancements expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in personnel-related costs resulting from higher headcount.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $262 million, representing a decrease of $36 million compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash collections from billings of $113 million mainly attributable to lower single installment collections, partially offset by a decrease in vendor disbursements and payroll of $81 million compared with the year-ago period.
Mainframe Solutions revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million and, to a lesser extent, an increase in revenue from new sales that offset the decline in revenue contribution from renewals. Mainframe Solutions operating margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue.
Enterprise Solutions revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange effect of $8 million. Excluding the favorable foreign exchange effect, Enterprise Solutions revenue increased primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis. Enterprise Solutions operating margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
•Mainframe Solutions revenue increased primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million and, to a lesser extent, an increase in revenue from new sales that offset the decline in revenue contribution from renewals. Mainframe Solutions operating margin increased primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue.
•Agile Operations helps customers correlate end-user, application and infrastructure data from cloud-hosted containers to mainframes. Our solutions help customers see application dependencies and provide intelligent analytics, comprehensive coverage, and an open, extensible architecture that improves end-user experience.
•Execute strategic and disciplined technology acquisitions. We intend to supplement our organic innovation efforts with key technology acquisitions that are within or adjacent to our core areas of focus. We also focus on organically developing nascent technologies from companies we have acquired to provide them with the necessary interoperability, resilience and security to operate at scale in the large, heterogeneous IT environments utilized by our customers.
Our segments strengthen each other in several ways. Our customers benefit from the ability of CA solutions to span their entire infrastructure stack, across mobile, cloud, distributed, and mainframe. This is critical as customers focus on their end users’ experiences on their apps and the underlying transactions that traverse their heterogeneous environments. CA is one of the few companies positioned to deliver solutions that span mobile, cloud, open systems and mainframe environments. This hybrid cloud capability helps customers remove the barriers between ideas and business outcomes. We are able to bidirectionally leverage our core strengths and development efforts in our products within the Enterprise Solutions segment to bring new innovations to the Mainframe Solutions segment and vice versa. Our strong market position enables our investment in development, innovation and support of the mainframe platform to be among the largest in the industry, which sustains ongoing customer commitment to our Mainframe Solutions. Our Services segment leverages our expertise across our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments and helps customers deploy and maintain our solutions.•We may experience a departure of employees.