As part of its growth strategy, the Company seeks to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which the Company has substantial marketing and technical expertise. 
Vishay's reporting segments generate substantially all of their revenue from product sales to the industrial, automotive, telecommunications, computing, consumer products, power supplies, military and aerospace, and medical end markets. A small portion of revenues is from royalties. 
The Company has a broad line of products that it sells to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), electronic manufacturing services ("EMS") companies, which manufacture for OEMs on an outsourcing basis, and independent distributors that maintain large inventories of electronic components for resale to OEMs and EMS companies. 
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31. The four fiscal quarters in 2018 end on March 31, 2018, June 30, 2018, September 29, 2018, and December 31, 2018, respectively. The four fiscal quarters in 2017 ended on April 1, 2017, July 1, 2017, September 30, 2017, and December 31, 2017, respectively. 
The Company also regularly evaluates gross profit by segment to assist in the analysis of consolidated gross profit. The Company considers segment operating income to be the more important metric because it more fully captures the business operations of the segments. 
The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the product even if the shipping and handling activities are performed after the customer obtains control. The Company does not evaluate whether shipping and handling activities are promised services to its customers. If control transfers and revenue is recognized for the related products before the shipping and handling activities occur, the related costs of those shipping and handling activities is accrued. The Company applies this accounting policy election consistently to similar types of transactions. Due to the continuing positive business climate in the third fiscal quarter of 2018 average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter and decreased slightly versus the prior year-to-date period. 
MOSFETs segment net revenues in the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 increased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. All regions and sales channels contributed to the significant increase versus the prior year quarter with the Americas and Europe regions experiencing above average growth. The strong performance of our IC product business in the third fiscal quarter of 2017 results in comparatively lower growth with Asian distributors in the current year periods.  
Net revenues of the Capacitors segment for the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 increased significantly versus the prior year periods and moderately versus the prior fiscal quarter. All regions contributed to the growth in net revenues versus the prior year periods. The Asia and Americas regions contributed to the growth in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter, with the Americas region experiencing the most significant growth. Net revenues in the Europe region decreased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency effects. Distribution and the industrial and automotive end markets were the main contributors to the sales growth. 
The Diodes segment achieved significant growth in net revenues in the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 versus the prior year periods and slight growth versus the prior fiscal quarter. The increases versus the prior year periods were primarily due to volume growth, especially with distributors in all regions, and higher average selling prices. The positive impacts from a stronger euro also contributed to the growth versus the prior year-to-date period. The increase versus the prior fiscal quarter was primarily due to volume growth, especially in the Asia and Americas regions, and higher average selling prices, partially offset by negative impacts from a weaker euro. 
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the third fiscal quarter of 2018, average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior quarter and prior year periods. 
Gross profit margin increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and the third fiscal quarter of 2017. The increases are primarily volume-driven. 
The Optoelectronic Components segment experienced a slight increase in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter, a slight decrease versus the prior year quarter, and a moderate increase versus the prior year-to-date period. The increase versus the prior fiscal quarter is primarily due to increased volume, particularly in the Asia region, partially offset by lower average selling prices and a weaker euro. The decrease versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to lower average selling prices. The increase versus the prior year-to-date period is primarily due to increased volume in Europe and with distributors in the Americas region and positive impacts from a stronger euro, partially offset by declining average selling prices. 
For the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, we anticipate revenues between $745 million and $785 million and gross margins of 28.0% to 29.5% at the exchange rates of the third fiscal quarter. Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018 and Item 1 of Part II of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 8, 2018 describe certain of our legal proceedings. Except as described below, there have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed.  Item 1.  Legal Proceedings     
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018 and Item 1 of Part II of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 8, 2018 describe certain of our legal proceedings. Except as described below, there have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed. 