The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31. The four fiscal quarters in 2019 end on March 30, 2019, June 29, 2019, September 28, 2019, and December 31, 2019, respectively. The four fiscal quarters in 2018 ended on March 31, 2018, June 30, 2018, September 29, 2018, and December 31, 2018, respectively. 
The Company also regularly evaluates gross profit by segment to assist in the analysis of consolidated gross profit. The Company considers segment operating income to be the more important metric because it more fully captures the business operations of the segments. 
Continues on following page. 
The Company maintains various retirement benefit plans. 
The Company elected to use the package of practical expedients available in ASC Topic 842; and accordingly, did not reassess existing contracts for leases, the classification of existing leases, or initial direct costs for any existing leases. The Company also elected to use the practical expedient available in ASC Topic 842 for land easements. 
The conduct attributable to VPC occurred prior to the acquisition of that entity from Holy Stone Enterprises Co. Ltd. (“Holy Stone”) in 2014. Holy Stone has agreed to indemnify VPC for losses, including the penalty and expenses associated with the decision described above. Net revenues of the Capacitors segment for the first fiscal quarter of 2019 decreased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter, but increased significantly versus the prior year quarter. The increase in net revenues from the European region versus the prior fiscal quarter was offset by decreases from the Asia and American regions. Increases in net revenues from the European and American regions versus the prior year quarter were only partially offset by decreases from the Asia region. The decrease in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter is primarily due to distribution customers. Distribution customers contributed the most to the revenue increase versus the prior year quarter. 
In the first fiscal quarter of 2019, the MOSFETs segment experienced a slight decline in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter, but a significant increase in net revenues versus the prior year quarter. Net revenues increased significantly from American and European end customers, but decreased moderately in our biggest market, Asian distributors, versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter. 
Net revenues of our Diodes segment declined significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter, but increased slightly versus the prior year quarter. All regions, particularly Asia, and distribution customers contributed to the decrease versus the prior fiscal quarter. The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased average selling prices, which were partially offset by the negative impacts of a weaker euro. 
Cash flows provided by operating activities were $79.5 million for the three fiscal months ended March 30, 2019, as compared to cash flows provided by operations of $46.9 million for the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018. 
The gross profit margin improved versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter. The increase versus the prior fiscal quarter is primarily due to cost reduction activities. The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased sales volume, cost reduction activities, and volume efficiencies. 
We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the third fiscal quarter of 2018, which resulted in increased net revenues compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2018. Demand started to decrease as supply started to catch up with demand in fourth fiscal quarter of 2018 and further decreased in the first fiscal quarter of 2019 as supply, in general, caught up with market demand. The decrease in demand resulted in decreased net revenues compared to the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018. 
Gross profit margin was stable versus the prior fiscal quarter, but decreased versus the first fiscal quarter of 2018. The decrease versus the first fiscal quarter of 2018 is primarily volume-driven. U.S. tariffs on goods imported from China impacted the gross profit margin versus both the prior fiscal quarter and first fiscal quarter of 2018. 
The gross profit margin in the first fiscal quarter of 2019 increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter. The increase versus the prior fiscal quarter is primarily due to a more favorable product mix and higher average selling prices. The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased sales volume and higher average selling prices. 
Due to the strong business environment throughout 2018, average selling prices increased through the first nine fiscal months of 2018 before starting to decrease consistent with our historical experience in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018. This resulted in average selling prices that were slightly lower versus the prior fiscal quarter and slightly higher versus the prior year quarter. 
The book-to-bill ratio in the first fiscal quarter of 2019 decreased to 0.79 versus 0.94 in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018. The book-to-bill ratios in the first fiscal quarter of 2019 for distributors and original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") were 0.54 and 1.10, respectively, versus ratios of 0.90 and 0.98, respectively, during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018. The conduct attributable to VPC occurred prior to the acquisition of that entity from Holy Stone Enterprises Co. Ltd. (“Holy Stone”) in 2014. Holy Stone has agreed to indemnify VPC for losses, including the penalty and expenses associated with the decision described above.  Item 5.  Other Information       Item 1.  Legal Proceedings      
  101   Interactive Data File (Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the quarterly period ended March 30, 2019, furnished in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language)).    