As part of its growth strategy, the Company seeks to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which the Company has substantial marketing and technical expertise. 
Vishay's reporting segments generate substantially all of their revenue from product sales to the industrial, automotive, telecommunications, computing, consumer products, power supplies, military and aerospace, and medical end markets. A small portion of revenues is from royalties. 
The Company has a broad line of products that it sells to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), electronic manufacturing services ("EMS") companies, which manufacture for OEMs on an outsourcing basis, and independent distributors that maintain large inventories of electronic components for resale to OEMs and EMS companies. 
The Company also regularly evaluates gross profit by segment to assist in the analysis of consolidated gross profit. The Company considers segment operating income to be the more important metric because it more fully captures the business operations of the segments. 
The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the product even if the shipping and handling activities are performed after the customer obtains control. The Company does not evaluate whether shipping and handling activities are promised services to its customers. If control transfers and revenue is recognized for the related products before the shipping and handling activities occur, the related costs of those shipping and handling activities is accrued. The Company applies this accounting policy election consistently to similar types of transactions. 
Continues on following page. Net revenues of the Capacitors segment for the first fiscal quarter of 2018 increased significantly versus the prior year quarter and slightly versus the prior quarter. The Europe region contributed most to the growth in net revenues versus the prior year quarter, while revenues for the Asia and Americas regions remained relatively constant. The industrial and automotive end markets were main contributors to the sales growth versus the prior year quarter. 
In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, the MOSFETs segment experienced significant growth in net revenues versus the prior year quarter and moderate growth versus the prior quarter. All regions and sales channels contributed to the significant increase versus the prior year quarter with Americas and European distributors experiencing above average growth. Our IC products business contributed strongly to the increase in Asia. The moderate increase versus the prior quarter was primarily due to significant growth in Europe.  
In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, the Optoelectronic Components segment experienced a moderate increase in net revenues versus the prior quarter and a significant increase versus the prior year quarter. The increase versus the prior quarter was primarily achieved with distribution customers in all regions and European end customers, partially offset by decreases with Asian and American end customers. The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to a stronger euro and increases with distribution customers in Americas and Europe and end customers in Europe, partially offset by decreases with distribution customers in Asia and Asian and American end customers. 
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the first fiscal quarter of 2018, average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior quarter and decreased slightly versus the prior year quarter. 
The gross profit margin in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 increased versus the prior quarter and the prior year quarter. The increase versus the prior quarter is primarily due to a more favorable product mix and manufacturing efficiencies. The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased net revenues and manufacturing efficiencies. 
We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the first fiscal quarter of 2018, which resulted in increased net revenues compared to the prior fiscal quarter and first fiscal quarter of 2017. 
For the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we anticipate revenues between $740 million and $780 million and gross margins of 28.5% to 29.5% at the exchange rates of the first fiscal quarter. 
Gross profit margin increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and the first fiscal quarter of 2017. The increases are primarily volume-driven with decreasing average selling prices burdening each period. 
The gross profit margin increased versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter. The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased net revenues, the currency impacts of a stronger euro, which impacted revenues more than expenses, and increased efficiencies. The increase versus the prior quarter is primarily due to increased net revenues, the positive impact of an inventory increase, increased efficiencies, as well as cost reduction measures that exceeded the impacts of cost inflation and lower average selling prices.  Item 5.  Other Information      Item 1.  Legal Proceedings     
  101   Interactive Data File (Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2018, furnished in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language)).    