Vishay's reporting segments generate substantially all of their revenue from product sales to the industrial, automotive, telecommunications, computing, consumer products, power supplies, military and aerospace, and medical end markets. A small portion of revenues is from royalties.  
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31. The four fiscal quarters in 2019 end on March 30, 2019, June 29, 2019, September 28, 2019, and December 31, 2019, respectively. The four fiscal quarters in 2018 ended on March 31, 2018, June 30, 2018, September 29, 2018, and December 31, 2018, respectively.  
The Company also regularly evaluates gross profit by segment to assist in the analysis of consolidated gross profit. The Company considers segment operating income to be the more important metric because it more fully captures the business operations of the segments.  
Continues on following page. 
The Company maintains various retirement benefit plans.  
The Company elected to use the package of practical expedients available in ASC Topic 842; and accordingly, did not reassess existing contracts for leases, the classification of existing leases, or initial direct costs for any existing leases. The Company also elected to use the practical expedient available in ASC Topic 842 for land easements.  Net revenues of the Capacitors segment decreased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter and decreased slightly versus the prior year-to-date period. Net revenues decreased versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods in all regions, except for Americas, which increased versus the prior year-to-date period. The decrease in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods is primarily due to distribution customers. 
Net revenues of our Diodes segment declined significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. Net revenues decreased significantly in all regions and sales channels versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. The decrease was most significant with our distribution customers in Asia. 
Net revenues of the MOSFETs segment decreased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter, significantly versus the prior year quarter, and moderately versus the prior year-to-date period. The decrease versus the prior year-to-date period was partially offset by the significant increase in the first fiscal quarter versus the prior year. The increase in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year periods from European and American end customers were offset by the significant decrease from distributor customers in all regions. The decreases in our biggest market, Asian distributors, were partially offset by significant increases in our integrated circuits products. 
Net revenues of our Optoelectronic Components segment decreased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. The decreases were in all regions and sales channels, particularly distributor customers. 
The gross profit margin decreased versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter, but increased versus the prior year-to-date period. The decrease versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year fiscal quarter is primarily due to lower sales volume and increased metal and labor costs, partially offset by higher average selling prices and our cost reduction efforts. The increase versus the prior year-to-date period is primarily due to higher average selling prices and more profitable product mix. 
We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the third fiscal quarter of 2018. Demand started to decrease in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018 and the decrease has accelerated through the third fiscal quarter of 2019 as distributors have significantly reduced orders as they decrease their inventory. The decrease in demand resulted in decreased net revenues compared to the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. 
Our free cash results were significantly impacted by the payment of cash taxes related to the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2019 of $20.5 million and $18.3 million, respectively, and $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively, and the installment payments of the U.S. transition tax of $14.8 million and $14.4 million in the second fiscal quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
Due to the strong business environment throughout 2018, average selling prices increased through the first nine fiscal months of 2018 before starting to decrease consistent with our historical experience in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018. This resulted in average selling prices that were slightly lower versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year periods. 
For the fourth fiscal quarter of 2019, we anticipate revenues between $580 million and $620 million and gross margins of 23% to 24% at the exchange rates of the third fiscal quarter of 2019. We anticipate that inventory reductions, particularly by distributors, will continue to have some negative impact on our revenues in the short-term. 
Average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year periods.  Item 5. Other Information      Item 1. Legal Proceedings     