item1.txt
Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of March 31, 2018, $196 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $82 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
As of March 31, 2018, we had $104 thousand of total gross unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate in any future periods.
We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax provision reported as "Deferred tax assets" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
ASU No. 2014-09," Revenue from Contracts with Customers" and its related amendments (collectively, ASC 606) are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods therein.
In accordance with ASC 606, a performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer.
Some of our contracts with customers contain a single performance obligation, while other contracts contain multiple performance obligations (most commonly when contracts include product and extended warranties).
A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
When there are multiple performance obligations within a contract, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price.
The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring services to the customer.
To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, such as price protection, reserves for returns and other allowances, the Company estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the "expected value" method or the "most likely amount" method depending on the nature of the variable consideration.
Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in the Company's judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur.
The transaction price is recognized upon shipment of the order when control of the goods is transferred to the customer and at the time the performance obligation is fulfilled.
The transaction prices from EPICENTRAL™ software license and hardware are recognized upon installation and formal acceptance by the customer when control of the license is transferred to the customer.
For out-of-warranty repairs, the transaction price is recognized after completion of the repair work is completed and the printer or terminal is returned to the customer, as control of the product is transferred to the customer.
Performance obligations are satisfied over-time if the customer receives the benefits as we perform work, if the customer controls the asset as it is being produced, or if the product being produced for the customer has no alternative use and we have a contractual right to payment.
For our separately priced extended warranty and maintenance agreements (including free one-year maintenance received by the customers upon completion of EPICENTRAL™ installation) revenue is recognized over-time as the customer receives the benefit.
The transaction price from the maintenance services is recognized ratably over-time, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer.
For extended warranties, the transaction price is recognized ratably over the warranty period, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer.
In the cases where there is more than one performance obligation in a customer arrangement, the Company typically uses the "standalone selling price" method to determine the transaction price to allocate to each performance obligation.
The Company sells the performance obligations separately and has established standalone selling prices for its products and services.
To determine the standalone selling price for initial EPICENTRAL™ installations, the Company uses the adjusted market assessment approach.
The adoption of the ASC 606 did not require the Company to record an adjustment to retained earnings at January 1, 2018 and did not have an impact on the first quarter consolidated income statement, basic or diluted earnings per share, consolidated statement of cash flows or consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2018.
The Company applied the practical expedient for contracts with customers for a term of twelve months or less, in accordance with ASC 340-40-25-4, which allows TransAct to continue to expense sales commissions as incurred, since the expected amortization period of the cost to obtain a contract is less than 12 months.
Remaining performance obligations represents the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
As of March 31, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $8.4 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $6.3 million of our remaining performance obligations within the next twelve months, with the balance of these remaining performance obligations recognized within the next 24 months.


item2.txt
TransAct Technologies Incorporated ("TransAct") is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale ("POS") automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, mobile and oil and gas.
Net sales for the first quarter of 2018 decreased $1.8 million, or 13%, from the same period in 2017.
Printer and terminal sales volume decreased 28% to approximately 31 thousand units driven primarily by an 80% decrease in unit volume from the lottery market and a 29% decrease in unit volume in the POS automation and banking market.
These decreases were partially offset by increases in unit volume of 6% from the casino and gaming market and 87% from the restaurant solutions market.
The average selling price of our printers and terminals increased 15% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017.
International sales for the first quarter of 2018 decreased $1.4 million, or 41%, from the same period in 2017 primarily due to a decrease in sales in the international lottery market and to a lesser extent a 14% decrease in the international casino and gaming market.
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 was primarily driven by a 27% decrease in domestic sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald's slowed compared to the record pace experienced in 2016 and the first quarter of 2017.
Domestic sales also declined, although to a lesser extent, due to a 73% decrease in sales of our legacy banking and other POS printers in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 as we continue to deemphasize these products.
The increase in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products was due largely to a 19% increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printers in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017, driven primarily by increased sales to our OEMs. Additionally, domestic EPICENTRAL™ software sales increased 233% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 as we completed one new installation in 2018 compared to no installations completed during the first quarter of 2017.
International casino and gaming product sales decreased in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 due to a 32% decline in international sales of our off-premise gaming printers to Europe, Australia and Asia.
Sales of our off-premise gaming printers are largely project-oriented and therefore may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year.
International sales of our thermal casino printers increased 5% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017.
We expect international sales of both our thermal casino printers and off-premise gaming printers to increase in 2018 as we benefit from the transition away from our previous exclusive worldwide distributor whose contract ended at the end of 2017 and begin to sell directly to our slot machine manufacturers and end user casino and gaming customers in Europe.
The decrease in international lottery sales in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 was due to a sale of lottery printers to IGT for the Canadian lottery in the first quarter of 2017 and no comparable sale occurring in the first quarter of 2018.
The increase in sales of Printrex printers in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 resulted from 107% higher domestic sales in the oil and gas market.
This increase was partially offset by lower sales in the international oil and gas market and lower sales of both domestic and international medical and mobile printers in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017.
We expect Printrex sales for the full year of 2018 to be higher than 2017, as we expect a continued modest recovery in the oil and gas market to more than offset lower expected sales of medical and mobile printers as we shift our focus to our higher value, technology-enabled restaurant solution and casino and gaming products.
Internationally, revenue from TSG increased slightly in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 due to higher international replacement part sales.
Gross profit is measured as revenue less cost of sales, which includes primarily the cost of all raw materials and component parts, direct labor, manufacturing overhead expenses, cost of finished products purchased directly from our contract manufacturers and expenses associated with installations of our EPICENTRALTM print system.
In the first quarter of 2018, gross profit decreased $231 thousand, or 4%, compared to the same period in 2017 due to 13% lower sales, somewhat offset by higher gross margin.
Although gross profit decreased, our gross margin increased 440 basis points, from 47.9% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 43.5% in the first quarter of 2017.
The increased gross margin reflects a favorable shift in sales mix towards higher-value, technology driven solutions, as well as lower sales of the lottery and POS printers, which carry lower margins than our other products.
Such expenses decreased by $99 thousand, or 6%, in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 primarily due to the retirement of our EVP, Sales and Marketing in December 2017, whose position was replaced by an existing employee of TransAct, as well as the elimination of commission expense to our former international casino and gaming distributor, Suzo-Happ.
These decreases were partially offset by the hiring of additional sales staff to expand our casino and gaming sales to support our direct selling model and to replace our former distributor.
We expect selling and marketing expenses to be higher in 2018 compared to 2017 due to the build-out of our internal sales infrastructure to sell directly to slot machine manufacturers and end user casino and gaming customers in Europe in 2018.
General and administrative expenses increased $200 thousand, or 10%, in first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 due primarily to higher severance and incentive compensation expense incurred in the 2018 period.
We expect general and administrative expenses in 2018 to be higher than 2017 due to increased recruiting expenses as we continue to expand our restaurant solutions sales and engineering staff and complete the planned expansion of sales staff for our European casino and gaming market.
We recorded other income of $10 thousand in the first quarter of 2018 compared to other expense of $6 thousand in the first quarter of 2017.
In the first three months of 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased $838 thousand, or 15%, from December 31, 2017 and we ended the first quarter of 2018 with $4.7 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which $315 thousand was held by our U.K. subsidiary, and no debt outstanding.
●  Accounts receivable decreased $2.3 million, or 21%, due to the collection of past due receivables for 2017 sales made to our former international casino and gaming distributor.
●  Accounts payable decreased $740 thousand, or 19%, due primarily to higher inventory purchases made towards the end of the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2018 that were subsequently paid in the first quarter of 2018.
●  Accounts receivable decreased $1.3 million, or 12%, due to the collection of receivables for sales made late in the fourth quarter of 2016.
●  Inventories increased $254 thousand, or 3%, due largely to the purchase of AccuDate inventory to support expected restaurant solutions sales in 2017.
●  Accounts payable decreased $1.3 million, or 27%, due primarily to increased inventory purchases towards the end of the fourth quarter of 2016 and subsequently paid in the first quarter of 2017.


item4.txt
Item 6.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Item 6.


