item1.txt
Assets and liabilities of such subsidiary have been translated at the end of period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at the weighted average exchange rates with the resulting translation gain or loss recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax", in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
The Company intends to elect the package of practical expedients and currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption of Topic 842.
While we expect to record material right-of-use assets and corresponding liabilities upon adoption of Topic 482, we do not expect adoption of the guidance will result in a material impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows.
The results for periods before 2018 were not adjusted for the new standard and no cumulative effective for the change in accounting was recognized through retained earnings at the date of adoption.
In accordance with ASC 606, a performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer.
A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
When there are multiple performance obligations within a contract, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price.
The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring services to the customer.
Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in the Company’s judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur.
The transaction price is recognized upon shipment of the order when control of the goods is transferred to the customer and at the time the performance obligation is fulfilled.
The transaction prices from EPICENTRAL™ software license and hardware are recognized upon installation and formal acceptance by the customer when control of the license is transferred to the customer.
For out-of-warranty repairs, the transaction price is recognized after completion of the repair work is completed and the printer or terminal is returned to the customer, as control of the product is transferred to the customer.
For our separately priced extended warranty, technical support for our restaurant solution terminals and maintenance agreements (including free one-year maintenance received by the customers upon completion of EPICENTRAL™ installation) revenue is recognized over time as the customer receives the benefit.
The transaction price from the maintenance services is recognized ratably over time, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer.
For extended warranties, the transaction price is recognized ratably over the warranty period, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer.
In the cases where there is more than one performance obligation in a customer arrangement, the Company typically uses the “standalone selling price” method to determine the transaction price to allocate to each performance obligation.
The Company sells the performance obligations separately and has established standalone selling prices for its products and services.
As noted above, we adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective approach which allows the Company to record any changes using the cumulative effect.
The adoption of the ASC 606 did not require the Company to record an adjustment to retained earnings at January 1, 2018 and did not have an impact on the consolidated income statement during the first nine months of 2018, basic or diluted earnings per share, consolidated statement of cash flows or consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2018.
The Company applied the practical expedient for contracts with customers for a term of twelve months or less, in accordance with ASC 340-40-25-4, which allows TransAct to continue to expense sales commissions as incurred, since the expected amortization period of the cost to obtain a contract is less than 12 months.
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
As of September 30, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $6.0 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $5.5 million of our remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.4 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations recognized within the next 36 months.


item2.txt
Printer and terminal sales volume increased 12% to approximately 42 thousand units for the third quarter of 2018, driven primarily by a 73% increase in unit volume from the casino and gaming market and, to a lesser extent, a 9% increase in unit volume from the POS automation and banking market.
The average selling price of our printers and terminals increased 4% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 due primarily to lower lottery printer sales, which sell at a lower price than our other products.
International sales for the third quarter of 2018 increased $1.1 million, or 55%, from the same period in 2017 due primarily to a 58% increase in sales in the international casino and gaming market.
The decrease in domestic restaurant solutions terminal sales in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 was driven by lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal due to lower sales to McDonald's.
This decrease was partially offset by increased sales of our newer AccuDate XL2e terminal to three large corporate customers in support of large-scale, multi-quarter rollouts of the terminal.
The increase in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue from the third quarter of 2017 was driven by a 22% increase in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald’s have returned to the near record levels experienced during 2017.
This increase was partially offset by 81% lower domestic sales of our legacy banking and other POS printers for the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017.
International sales from our POS automation and banking products decreased during the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 due to lower sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer to our Canadian distributor for McDonald’s.
The increase in international sales of our casino and gaming products in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 was due to a 76% increase in sales of our thermal casino printers.
While we expect casino and gaming sales to increase in the fourth quarter of 2018 compared to the fourth quarter of 2017, we do not expect domestic and international sales of our thermal casino printers to continue at the level experienced during the third quarter of 2018 for the remainder of 2018, as the third quarter results included two large orders that we do not expect to reoccur in 2018.
We expect lottery printer sales to be lower for the full year 2018 compared to the full year 2017, as we have shifted our focus away from the lottery market to our higher-value, technology enabled restaurant solutions and casino and gaming products.
The increase in sales of Printrex printers in the third quarter of 2018 compared to third quarter of 2017 resulted from a 67% increase in domestic and international sales of our oil and gas printers.
This increase was partially offset by 97% lower domestic and international sales of our medical and mobile printers in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017.
We expect Printrex sales for the full year of 2018 to be higher than 2017, as we expect a continued modest recovery in the global oil and gas industry to more than offset lower expected sales of medical and mobile printers as we shift our focus to our higher value, technology-enabled restaurant solutions and casino and gaming products.
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG for the third quarter of 2018 as compared to the prior year period was due primarily to decreased replacement part sales and non-Printrex consumable product sales.
The decreases were partially offset by increased AccuDate label sales which quadrupled during the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017.
Based on our backlog of orders and contractual commitments for replacement parts for our installed base of lottery printers, we expect TSG sales to decrease for the full year 2018 compared to the unusually high level of spare parts sales, largely from lottery printer spare part sales to IGT, during 2017.
Internationally, TSG revenue increased due to a 370% increase in sales of replacement parts and accessories in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017, as sales of replacement parts and accessories to international casino and gaming customers have increased upon the transition away from using our previous exclusive worldwide distributor and using our new direct sales team to sell to end user casino and gaming customers.
The increase in gross profit was driven by 2% higher sales and a favorable product sales mix in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017.
We expect our full year gross margin to be higher for 2018 compared to the full year 2017, as our sales mix shifts towards higher-value, technology driven solutions in the restaurant solutions and casino and gaming markets.
Such expenses decreased by $97 thousand, or 5%, in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 due primarily to the retirement of our EVP, Sales and Marketing in December 2017, whose position was replaced by an existing employee of TransAct, as well as the elimination of sales commission expense to our former international casino and gaming distributor, Suzo-Happ.
These decreases were somewhat offset by the hiring of additional sales staff in the U.K. to support our new direct selling model for the casino and gaming market in Europe.
We expect selling and marketing expenses in 2018 to be relatively consistent with 2017, as increased costs related to the build-out of our internal sales infrastructure in Europe during 2018 will be offset by savings from the retirement of our former EVP, Sales and Marketing and the elimination of sales commissions to our former gaming international distributor.
Printer sales volume decreased by 5% to approximately 112 thousand units in the first nine months of 2018 driven primarily by an 79% decrease in unit volume from the lottery market and, to a lesser extent, a 4% decrease in the POS automation and banking market.
These decreases were partially offset by an increase in sales volume of 50% in the casino and gaming market.
Although unit volume decreased in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017, the average selling price of our printers increased 9% during the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017, due primarily to the decreased volume of lottery printers which carry lower prices than our other products.
International sales increased $2 million, or 31%, primarily driven by 63% higher international sales in the casino and gaming market.
This increase was partially offset by a $1.1 million sales decrease in our international lottery market during the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017.
The increase in domestic restaurant solutions terminal sales in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 was driven by increased sales of our AccuDate XL2e to three large corporate customers in support of a large-scale, multi-quarter rollouts of the terminal.
International restaurant solutions sales increased during the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 due to increased sales of the AccuDate 9700 for McDonald’s through our Asian distributor.
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking sales in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 was primarily driven by a 74% decrease in sales of our legacy banking and other POS printers as we continue to deemphasize these products.
These decreases were partially offset by a slight increase in sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printers of 1% during the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017, as sales rebounded to prior year, near-record levels during the second and third quarters of 2018.
International POS automation and banking sales decreased due to lower sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer to our Canadian distributor for McDonald’s during the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017.
The increase in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products was due primarily to a 35% increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printer in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017, driven primarily by increased sales to our OEMs and a large order from a domestic casino operator for replacement printers in the third quarter of 2018.
Domestic sales also increased due to a significant sale of our off-premise gaming printers to an OEM based in the U.S. These increases were partially offset by lower domestic sales of EPICENTRAL™ software which decreased 41% as we completed one new installation during the first nine months of 2018 compared to two new installations completed in the first nine months of 2017.
The increase in international sales in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 was due to a 98% increase of thermal casino printer sales and, to a lesser extent, a 9% increase in international sales of off-premise gaming printers.
These increases were due to the success of the transition away from using our previous exclusive worldwide distributor and using our new direct sales team to sell to end user casino and gaming customers in Europe and included a large order to an international OEM in the third quarter of 2018.
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG in the first nine months of 2018 as compared to the first nine months of 2017 was due primarily to lower sales of replacement parts, non-Printrex consumable products and service revenue.
These decreases were partially offset by increased AccuDate label sales which more than quadrupled in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017.
Internationally, TSG revenue increased primarily due to a 124% increase in sales of replacement parts and accessories in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017, as sales of replacement parts and accessories to international casino and gaming customers have increased upon the transition away from using our previous exclusive worldwide distributor and using our new direct sales team to sell to end user casino and gaming customers.
Engineering, design and product development expenses increased $350 thousand, or 11%, in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 due primarily to the hiring of additional engineering staff and increased expenses related to product development for the restaurant solutions and casino and gaming markets.
Selling and marketing expenses decreased $151 thousand, or 3%, in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 primarily due to the retirement of our EVP, Sales and Marketing in December 2017, whose position was replaced by an existing employee of TransAct, as well as the elimination of sales commission expense to our former international casino and gaming distributor, Suzo-Happ.
General and administrative expenses increased $243 thousand, or 4%, in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 due primarily to increased legal expenses and increased administrative expenses related to the expansion of our restaurant solutions sales staff and transitioning to a direct selling model for the casino and gaming market in Europe.
●  Inventories increased $4.2 million, or 47%, due to the buildup of inventory on hand to support future anticipated sales in the casino and gaming and restaurant solutions markets.
●  Accounts receivable increased $740 thousand, or 7%, due largely to a 14% increase in sales in the third quarter of 2017 compared to the fourth quarter of 2016.
●  Accounts payable decreased $1.9 million, or 40%, due primarily to increased inventory purchases towards the end of the fourth quarter of 2016 to support anticipated sales of our restaurant solutions terminals and subsequently paid in the first nine months of 2017.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2018.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2018, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Item 6.


