The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 56% and 57% of net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and approximately 56% and 55% of net revenues, respectively, in the corresponding periods of 2017. A significant portion of these revenues are attributable to sales of the Company’s products to distributors of electronic components. These distributors sell the Company’s products to a broad, diverse range of end users, including OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers. Sales to distributors were $83.3 million and $245.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and $83.2 million and $249.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2017. Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
In each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, one customer, a distributor of the Company's products, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues.
The Company's effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, were 7.6% and 6.3%, respectively, and 2.6% and 1.2% for the corresponding periods of 2017. In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the effective tax rates for these periods were lower than the then statutory federal income-tax rates of 21% and 35%, respectively, due to the geographic distribution of the Company’s world-wide earnings in lower tax jurisdictions, federal research tax credits, as well as the recognition of excess tax benefits related to share-based payments. These benefits were offset in part by the estimated 2018 GILTI tax for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2017, was approximately $6.5 million (comprising approximately $4.0 million related to RSUs, $2.2 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan). In the nine months ended September 30, 2017, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $17.8 million (comprising approximately $11.2 million related to RSUs, $5.7 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.9 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
Under the terms of the Company's wafer-supply agreements with Seiko Epson Corporation ("Epson"), and ROHM Lapis Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ("Lapis") the wafers purchased from these suppliers are priced in U.S. dollars; however, these agreements also allow for mutual sharing of the impact of the exchange rate fluctuation between Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar on future purchases. Each year, the Company's management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing 
The Company did not transfer any investments between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and the twelve months ended December 31, 2017.
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Power Integrations, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Company is organized and operates as one reportable segment, the design, development, manufacture and marketing of integrated circuits and related components for use primarily in the high-voltage power-conversion market. The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance.
  The Company's PRSU program provides for the issuance of PRSUs which will vest based on the Company's performance measured against the PRSU program's established revenue targets. PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met. The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number. The performance goals for PRSUs granted in fiscal 2016, 2017 and 2018 were based on the Company’s annual revenue growth over the respective three-year performance period.
On May 23, 2008, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has infringed and is infringing three patents pertaining to power supply controller integrated circuit devices. Fairchild answered the Company’s complaint on November 7, 2008, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid and unenforceable. Fairchild’s answer also included counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing three patents pertaining to primary side power conversion integrated circuit devices. Fairchild had earlier brought these same claims in a separate suit against the Company, also in Delaware, which Fairchild dismissed in favor of adding its claims to the Company’s already pending suit against Fairchild. The Company has answered Fairchild’s counterclaims, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Fairchild patent and that the Fairchild patents are invalid. Fairchild also filed a motion to stay the case, but the Court denied that motion on December Our gross margin was 52% and 50% in the three months ended September 30, 2018, and 2017, respectively, and 52% and 49% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and 2017, respectively. The increases in gross margin as compared with the same periods in the prior year were due primarily to a favorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from higher-margin end-markets; cost-reduction efforts also contributed to the increases.
The increases in gross margin for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared with the same periods in the prior year, was due primarily to a favorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from higher-margin end-markets; cost-reduction efforts also contributed to the increases.
Total operating expenses were $39.0 million and $39.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Operating expenses decreased in the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the same period in the prior year, due primarily to lower stock-based compensation expense; the decrease reflects a reduction of expense related to performance-based awards in light of our 2018 performance and expectations for the remainder of the year. The decrease was partially offset by higher salary and related expenses due to the expansion of our workforce, as well as higher product-development expenses. In the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, total operating expenses were $119.2 million and $116.5 million, respectively. Operating expenses increased in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared with the same period in the prior year, due primarily to the expansion of our workforce, resulting in higher salary and related expenses, and higher product-development expenses. These increases were partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense, as explained above.
Our net revenues were $110.1 million and $111.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $322.6 million and $323.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The slight decrease for the three- and nine-month periods was the result of lower sales into the communications and consumer end-markets, reflecting reduced demand for cellphone-charger, residential-networking and appliance applications. These decreases were mostly offset by growth in the industrial end-market, driven by a broad range of applications, and the computer end-market, driven by growth in power supplies for tablets. We believe that demand for our products, particularly in appliance applications, has been affected by U.S. tariffs on certain categories of appliances as well as on steel and aluminum, and by increased caution among our customers with respect to the impact of global trade disputes on their businesses.
Net revenues.  Net revenues consist of revenues from product sales, which are calculated net of returns and allowances. Net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $110.1 million and $322.6 million, respectively, and $111.3 million and $323.5 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2017. The slight decrease in revenues for the three- and nine-month periods was the result of lower sales into the communications and consumer end-markets, reflecting reduced demand for cellphone-charger, residential-networking and appliance applications. These decreases were mostly offset by growth in the industrial end-market, driven by a broad range of applications, and the computer end-market, driven by growth in power supplies for tablets. We believe that demand for our products, particularly in appliance applications, has been affected by U.S. tariffs on certain categories of appliances as well as on steel and aluminum, and by increased caution among our customers with respect to global trade disputes on their businesses.
the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families, which address applications up to about 500 watts) and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012. In 2016 we introduced the SCALE-iDriverTM family of gate-driver ICs, which enables us to address applications between approximately 10 kilowatts and 100 kilowatts, whereas previously our gate-driver products were primarily for applications above 100 kilowatts.
The increases in other income in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the same periods in 2017, were due primarily to increases in interest income reflecting higher yields earned on our cash and investments.Two of our major suppliers, Epson and Lapis, have wafer supply agreements based in U.S. dollars; however, our agreements with Epson and Lapis also allow for mutual sharing of the impact of the exchange rate fluctuation between Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar on future purchases. Each year, our management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing is denominated in U.S. dollars but is subject to contractual exchange rate provisions. The fluctuation in the exchange rate is shared equally between us and each of these suppliers on future purchases. In January 2018, our board of directors authorized the use of an additional $30.0 million for the repurchase of our common stock, which was announced on February 1, 2018. In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we purchased approximately 1.1 million shares for approximately $74.4 million. As of September 30, 2018, we had used up the entire amount authorized for repurchase. 