In each of three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, one customer, a distributor of the Company's products, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues.
The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 56% and 54% of net revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and approximately 59% and 58%, respectively, of net revenues in the corresponding periods of the previous year. A significant portion of these revenues are attributable to sales of the Company’s products to distributors of electronic components. These distributors sell the Company’s products to a broad, diverse range of end users, including original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and merchant power supply manufacturers. Sales to distributors were $74.8 million and $144.7 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $83.0 million and $162.1 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018. Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
In November 2017, ON Semiconductor filed suit against the Company in Taiwan charging the Company with infringing three Taiwanese patents and seeking an injunction and damages of approximately $1.0 million. After a number of hearings and briefings on various disputed issues, including issues of jurisdiction, claim construction, validity, and infringement, the Court on April 8, 2019 denied ON Semiconductor’s claims and dismissed the case; ON Semiconductor has filed an appeal, and further proceedings will take place over the coming months. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself against ON Semiconductor’s claims in any further proceedings in this matter.
The Company’s leases consist of operating leases for administrative office spaces, research-and-development facilities, design centers and sales offices in various countries around the world. The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Some lease agreements contain lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component. Total lease expense was $0.6 million and $1.2 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, while short-term and variable lease expenses were not material.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2018, was approximately $6.1 million, comprising approximately $3.9 million related to RSUs, $1.8 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan. In the six months ended June 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $11.7 million, comprising approximately $8.2 million related to RSUs, $2.7 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.8 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
The Company did not transfer any investments between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy in the six months ended June 30, 2019, and the twelve months ended December 31, 2018.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2019, was approximately $5.5 million, comprising approximately $4.2 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $0.9 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan. In the six months ended June 30, 2019, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $9.9 million, comprising approximately $8.8 million related to RSUs, $0.3 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.8 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Power Integrations, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Company is organized and operates as one reportable segment, the design, development, manufacture and marketing of integrated circuits and related components for use primarily in the high-voltage power-conversion market. The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance.
  The Company's PRSU program provides for the issuance of PRSUs which will vest based on the Company's performance measured against the PRSU program's established revenue targets. PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met. The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number. The performance goals for PRSUs granted in fiscal 2017, 2018 and 2019 were based on the Company’s annual revenue growth over the respective three-year performance period.Our net revenues were $102.9 million and $109.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $192.1 million and $212.6 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease for the three-month period was a result of lower sales into the consumer and industrial end markets, reflecting reduced demand for consumer-appliances and a broad range of industrial applications. These decreases were partially offset by growth in the communications and computer end markets, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone and tablet chargers, respectively. The decrease in the six-month period reflects a broad-based decline in demand across all end markets resulting from global trade disputes.
Net revenues.  Net revenues consist of revenues from product sales, which are calculated net of returns and allowances. Net revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $102.9 million and $192.1 million, respectively, and $109.5 million and $212.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018. The decrease for the three-month period was a result of lower sales into the consumer and industrial end markets, reflecting reduced demand for consumer-appliances and a broad range of industrial applications. This decrease was partially offset by growth in the communications and computer end markets, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone and tablet chargers, respectively. The decrease in the six month period reflects a broad-based decline in demand across all end markets resulting from global trade disputes.
Gross margin decreased in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, compared with the same period in the prior year, due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs along with an unfavorable change in end-market mix with a greater percentage of revenues coming from lower-margin end-markets.
Total operating expenses were $41.8 million and $40.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $81.2 million and $80.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increases were due primarily to higher salary and related expenses driven by the expansion of our workforce and by annual merit increases; also contributing to the increases were higher legal expenses in connection with our litigation with ON Semiconductor as well as equipment related expenses in support of our product-development efforts. These increases were partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense related to performance-based awards.
•Increase our penetration of the markets we serve. We currently address AC-DC applications with power outputs up to approximately 500 watts, gate-driver applications of approximately ten kilowatts and higher, and motor-drive applications up to approximately 300 watts. Through our research and development efforts, we seek to introduce more advanced products for these markets offering higher levels of integration and performance compared to earlier products. We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products. These tools and services include our PI Expert™ design software, which we offer free of charge, and our transformer-sample service.
Our top ten customers, including distributors that resell to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for 56% and 54% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 59% and 58% of net revenues in each of the respective corresponding periods of 2018. Our top customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for approximately 10% and 12% of our net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and 14% and 15% in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. International sales accounted for 97% of our net revenues in each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 97% and 96% of net revenues in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
The increase in other income in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 as compared to the same periods in 2018 was primarily due to an increase in interest income reflecting higher yields earned on our cash and investments.Two of our major suppliers, Epson and Lapis, have wafer supply agreements based in U.S. dollars; however, our agreements with Epson and Lapis also allow for mutual sharing of the impact of the exchange rate fluctuation between Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar on future purchases. Each year, our management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing is denominated in U.S. dollars but is subject to contractual exchange rate provisions. The fluctuation in the exchange rate is shared equally between us and each of these suppliers on future purchases. 