In each of the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, one customer, a distributor of the Company's products, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues.
The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 58% of net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018, and approximately 59% of net revenues in the corresponding period of the previous year. A significant portion of these revenues are attributable to sales of the Company’s products to distributors of electronic components. These distributors sell the Company’s products to a broad, diverse range of end users, including OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers. Sales to distributors were $79.1 million and $80.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
The Company did not transfer any investments between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy in the three months ended March 31, 2018, and the twelve months ended December 31, 2017.
The Company sells products to its distributors under contracts, collectively referred to as Distributor Sales Agreements (“DSA”). Each DSA contains the relevant terms of the contractual arrangement with the distributor, and generally includes certain provisions for indemnifying the distributor against losses, expenses, and liabilities from damages that may be awarded against the distributor in the event the Company's products are found to infringe upon a patent, copyright, trademark, or other proprietary right of a third party (“Customer Indemnification”). The DSA generally limits the scope of and remedies for the Customer Indemnification obligations in a variety of industry-standard respects, including, but not limited to, limitations based on time and geography, and a 
In November 2017, ON Semiconductor filed suit against the Company in Taiwan charging the Company with infringing three Taiwanese patents and seeking an injunction and damages of approximately $1.0 million. No schedule has been set for trial at this preliminary stage, but the Company believes it has valid defenses and intends to vigorously defend itself against ON Semiconductor’s claims.
In each of the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, no outstanding stock awards were determined to be anti-dilutive and therefore excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share.
adverse findings, with further proceeding expected in the coming months. The PTO also instituted IPR proceedings in response to eight of ON Semiconductor’s eleven other petitions challenging patents previously asserted against Fairchild, denying institution in three cases, and the PTO has rejected a number of claims in the context of these ongoing proceedings. In one case, the PTO rejected as anticipated the claims of the Company’s U.S. Patent No. 6,538,908 that were asserted in litigation against Fairchild; an appeal is under way, with briefing expected in the coming months, and further proceedings and appeals regarding other IPRs are expected in the coming months as well. Although the validity of many of the Company’s challenged patents has previously been confirmed in the Company’s District Court litigation with Fairchild and in many cases in prior PTO reexamination proceedings as well, and though the Company intends to vigorously defend the validity of its patents, the outcome of the IPR proceedings is uncertain.
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Power Integrations, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Company is organized and operates as one reportable segment, the design, development, manufacture and marketing of integrated circuits and related components for use primarily in the high-voltage power-conversion market. The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance.
2016. The Company also filed motions requesting enhanced damages and attorney fees and reinstatement of the willfulness finding against Fairchild in view of an intervening change of law; on January 13, 2017, the District Court reinstated the finding that Fairchild’s infringement was willful but declined to enhance damages or award fees. In January 2017, Fairchild filed a further challenge to the verdict, but the Court rejected Fairchild’s motion and entered a final judgment of $146.5 million after factoring in pre-judgment interest. Fairchild’s appeal on the merits is under way, with briefing and oral argument now completed and a ruling expected in the coming months.Our net revenues were $103.1 million and $104.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease in net revenues was due primarily to lower unit sales into the communications end-market, reflecting reduced demand for power supplies for cell phone charging and networking applications. The decrease was partially offset by higher unit sales into the industrial and consumer end-markets, driven by growth from a broad range of industrial and consumer-appliance applications.
Net revenues.  Net revenues consist of revenues from product sales, which are calculated net of returns and allowances. Net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were $103.1 million and $104.7 million, respectively. The decrease in net revenues, compared with the same period in the prior year, was due primarily to lower unit sales into the communications end-market, reflecting reduced demand for power supplies for cell phone charging and networking applications. The decrease was partially offset by higher unit sales into the industrial and consumer end-markets, driven by growth from a broad range of industrial and consumer-appliance applications.
Our gross margin was 52% and 48% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in gross margin as compared with the same period in the prior year was due primarily to a favorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from higher-margin end-markets.
The increase in gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared with the same period in the prior year, was due primarily to a favorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from higher-margin end-markets.
The increase in other income in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to an increase in interest income reflecting higher yields earned on our cash and investments.
Total operating expenses were $39.6 million and $37.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase was due primarily to the expansion of our work force and annual merit increases, resulting in higher salary and related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense.
In each of the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, one customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues.Two of our major suppliers, Epson and Lapis, have wafer supply agreements based in U.S. dollars; however, our agreements with Epson and Lapis also allow for mutual sharing of the impact of the exchange rate fluctuation between Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar on future purchases. Each year, our management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing is denominated in U.S. dollars but is subject to contractual exchange rate provisions. The fluctuation in the exchange rate is shared equally between us and each of these suppliers on future purchases. In January 2018, our board of directors authorized the use of an additional $30.0 million for the repurchase of our common stock, which was announced on February 1, 2018. In the three months ended March 31, 2018, we purchased approximately 0.5 million shares for approximately $33.3 million. As of March 31, 2018, we had approximately $41.1 million remaining in our repurchase program, which has no expiration date.