In each of three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, one customer, a distributor of the Company's products, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues.
The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 55% and 54% of net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and approximately 56% and 57%, respectively, of net revenues in the corresponding periods of the previous year. A significant portion of these revenues are attributable to sales of the Company’s products to distributors of electronic components. These distributors sell the Company’s products to a broad, diverse range of end users, including original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and merchant power supply manufacturers. Sales to distributors were $78.0 million and $222.7 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and $83.3 million and $245.4 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018. Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
In November 2017, ON Semiconductor filed suit against the Company in Taiwan charging the Company with infringing three Taiwanese patents and seeking an injunction and damages of approximately $1.0 million. After a number of hearings and briefings on various disputed issues, including issues of jurisdiction, claim construction, validity, and infringement, the court on April 8, 2019 denied ON Semiconductor’s claims and dismissed the case; ON Semiconductor has filed an appeal, and further proceedings were expected take place over the coming months. This case is subject to the Definitive Agreement noted above, whereby the Company and ON are filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties.
The Company’s leases consist of operating leases for administrative office spaces, research-and-development facilities, design centers and sales offices in various countries around the world. The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Some lease agreements contain lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component. Total lease expense was $0.7 million and $1.8 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, while short-term and variable lease expenses were not material.
it intends to seek further review of these decisions, with further proceedings expected in the coming months. The PTO also instituted proceedings in response to ON Semiconductor’s eleven petitions filed against patents the Company asserted against ON Semiconductor. The PTO has rejected a number of the Company’s patent claims in the context of all of these ongoing proceedings, and further proceedings and appeals regarding the various IPRs are expected in the coming months as well. Although the validity of many of the Company’s challenged patents has previously been confirmed in the Company’s District Court litigation with Fairchild and in many cases in prior PTO reexamination proceedings as well, and though the Company intends to vigorously defend the validity of its patents, the outcome of the IPR proceedings is uncertain. These PTO proceedings with ON Semiconductor are subject to the Definitive Agreement noted above, whereby the Company and ON are filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties.
The Company did not transfer any investments between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, and the twelve months ended December 31, 2018.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2018, was approximately $4.4 million, comprising approximately $4.2 million related to RSUs, a reduction to expense of $0.1 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan. In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $16.1 million, comprising approximately $12.4 million related to RSUs, $2.6 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $1.1 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
On October 4, 2019, the Company entered into a binding term sheet (the “Term Sheet”) with ON Semiconductor Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries Fairchild Semiconductor and Semiconductor Components Industries, LLC (collectively, “ON”) pursuant to which the parties agreed to end all outstanding legal and administrative disputes. Pursuant to the Term Sheet, ON agreed to pay Power Integrations $175.0 million in cash. In addition, each party agreed to release the other party from any claims to damages or monetary relief for certain alleged acts of patent infringement across the various patent infringement litigations, occurring on or before June 30, 2020, and not to file any additional action for legal or equitable relief prior to June 30, 2023 (although following that date a party may file a legal action for alleged patent infringement occurring after June 30, 2020). Neither party granted any licenses to the other. On October 19, 2019, the parties memorialized the terms of the Term Sheet in a definitive agreement (the “Definitive Agreement”). On October 22, 2019, the Company received ON’s payment of $175.0 million. The Company and ON are in the process of filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties, as detailed below.
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Power Integrations, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
submissions to the court. However, this case is subject to the Definitive Agreement noted above, whereby the Company and ON are filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties.Our net revenues were $114.2 million and $110.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $306.2 million and $322.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in the three month period was due primarily to growth in the communications end market, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone chargers. This growth was partially offset by a broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets resulting from global trade disputes. Net revenues decreased in the nine-month period as the broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets outweighed growth in the communications end market.
Net revenues.  Net revenues consist of revenues from product sales, which are calculated net of returns and allowances. Net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $114.2 million and $306.2 million, respectively, and $110.1 million and $322.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018. The increase in the three month period was due primarily to growth in the communications end market, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone chargers. This growth was partially offset by a broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets resulting from global trade disputes. Net revenues decreased in the nine-month period as the broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets outweighed the growth in the communications end market.
•Increase our penetration of the markets we serve. We currently address AC-DC applications with power outputs up to approximately 500 watts, gate-driver applications of approximately ten kilowatts and higher, and motor-drive applications up to approximately 300 watts. Through our research and development efforts, we seek to introduce more advanced products for these markets offering higher levels of integration and performance compared to earlier products. We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products. These tools and services include our PI Expert™ design software, which we offer free of charge, and our transformer-sample service.
Gross margin decreased in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared with the same period in the prior year, due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs along with an unfavorable change in end-market mix with a greater percentage of revenues coming from lower-margin end-markets.
Total operating expenses were $40.6 million and $39.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $121.8 million and $119.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increases were due primarily to higher salary and related expenses driven by the expansion of our workforce and by annual merit increases; also contributing to the increases were higher expenses related to patent litigation as well as equipment related expenses in support of our product-development efforts. These increases were partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense related to performance-based awards.
Our gross margin for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was 51%, and was 52% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018. The decrease in gross margin was due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs along with an unfavorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from lower-margin end-markets.
Also contributing to our SAM expansion has been the emergence of new applications within the power ranges that our products can address. For example, applications such as “smart” utility meters, battery-powered lawn equipment and bicycles, and USB power receptacles (installed alongside traditional AC wall outlets) can incorporate our products. The increased use of electronic intelligence and connectivity in consumer appliances has also enhanced our SAM. Finally, we have enhanced our SAM by increasing the level of integration of our products, which in turn increases their value. For example, our InnoSwitch™ ICs integrate circuitry from the secondary, or low-voltage, side of AC-DC power supplies, whereas earlier product families integrated circuitry only on the primary, or high-voltage side.Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. As of September 30, 2019, our primary transactional currency was U.S. dollars; in addition, we hold cash in Swiss francs and euro. We maintain cash denominated in Swiss francs and euro to fund the operations of our Swiss subsidiary. The foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the U.S. dollar versus the Swiss franc and euro is recorded in other income in our condensed consolidated statements of income. 