item1.txt
At September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the total amount of restricted cash included in “Other noncurrent assets, net” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets was approximately $1 million and $2 million, respectively.
As a result of adopting Topic 606, the Company now recognizes revenue for the license component of all its on-premise software arrangements at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” and Note 3, “Impact of Adopting Topic 606,” for a discussion of the changes in the Company’s policies for revenue recognition and commissions, and the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting Topic 606.
ASU 2016-02 will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and requires the modified retrospective method of adoption, with an option to recognize the cumulative effect of applying the new standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
Although the Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, the Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
Although the Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption of ASU 2017-04, it does not currently expect the adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Although the Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption of ASU 2018-13, it does not currently expect the adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption and the effect that ASU 2018-15 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The Company’s contracts generally contain more than one of the products and services listed above, each of which is separately accounted for as a distinct performance obligation.
If the arrangement contains professional services and other products or services, the Company first allocates to the professional service obligation a portion of the total contract consideration equal to the standalone selling price of professional services that is observed from consistently priced standalone sales.
The Company allocates the remaining consideration among the other products and services in the contract on a relative standalone selling price basis.
Where the contracts are negotiated as a package, the Company will account for them as a single arrangement and allocate the consideration for the combined contracts among the performance obligations accordingly.
The value relationship the Company uses to allocate consideration between the license and maintenance performance obligations is derived from the observable relationship of the selling price of a standalone perpetual license maintenance renewal to the related perpetual license fee, which is generally 20% of the net license fee for one year of maintenance.
The Company also estimates the standalone selling prices of its material rights, which primarily include contractually stated amounts that the customer can use to acquire additional products and services.
In certain arrangements, the Company receives payment from a customer either before or after the performance obligation has been satisfied, however, the Company’s contracts generally do not contain a significant financing component.
The Company may modify contracts to offer customers additional products or services.
The Company evaluates whether the price for the additional products and services reflects the standalone selling price adjusted as appropriate for facts and circumstances applicable to that contract.
The difference in the opening and closing balances of the Company’s contract assets and deferred revenue primarily results from the timing difference between the Company’s performance and the customer’s payment.
The Company fulfills its obligations under a contract with a customer by transferring products and services in exchange for consideration from the customer.
The Company recognizes a contract asset when it transfers products or services to a customer and the right to consideration is conditional on something other than the passage of time.
The Company recognizes deferred revenue when it has received consideration or an amount of consideration is due from the customer and the Company has a future obligation to transfer products or services.
The following table discloses the aggregate amount of the transaction price and advanced payments allocated to remaining performance obligations as of the end of the reporting period, and when the Company expects to recognize the revenue.
Approximately $105 million of advanced payments received from government customers that have termination for convenience rights are included in “Deferred revenue and advanced payments” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet and allocated to the remaining performance obligations in the table above.
In addition, approximately $574 million related to the remaining unbilled contract value and performance obligations in these contracts with termination for convenience clauses are not included in the allocation of transaction price and not included in “Deferred revenue and advanced payments” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Company accounts for commissions using a portfolio approach and allocates the cost of commissions in proportion to the allocation of transaction price of license and maintenance performance obligations, including assumed renewals.
Amortization of capitalized contract costs is included in “Selling and marketing” expenses in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
In addition, upon adoption of Topic 606, the Company capitalized contract costs of approximately $427 million relating to commissions incurred to obtain customer contracts.
The net fair value of these contracts at September 30, 2018 was a net asset of approximately $10 million, of which approximately $18 million was included in “Other current assets” and approximately $8 million was included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The net fair value of these contracts at March 31, 2018 was a net asset of approximately $1 million, of which approximately $2 million was included in “Other current assets” and approximately $1 million was included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Services segment is comprised of product implementation, consulting, customer education and customer training services, including those directly related to the Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions software that the Company sells to its customers.
The software product revenue assigned to the Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments is based on either (1) a list price allocation method (which allocates a discount in the total contract price to the individual products in proportion to the list price of the products); (2) allocations included within internal contract approval documents; or (3) the value for individual software products as stated in the customer contract.
The contract value assigned to each operating segment is then recognized in a manner consistent with the revenue recognition policies of the Company prior to the adoption of Topic 606.
Accordingly, differences in segment revenue and consolidated revenue arise primarily from (a) term and perpetual software licenses that are recognized ratably under the Company’s segment policies and in its Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods prior to the adoption of Topic 606 that, after adoption of Topic 606, are recognized at a point-in-time; and (b) differences in the allocations of contract value among products and services in a contract arising from the use of a relative standalone selling price allocation method in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods after adoption of Topic 606 as compared to the aforementioned approach to assigning contract value to the Company’s segments.


item2.txt
On a Topic 605 basis, total revenue increased $11 million primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
•Mainframe Solutions revenue increased primarily due to an increase in revenue from new sales that offset the decline in revenue contribution from renewals, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $5 million.
Mainframe Solutions operating margin was consistent primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom.
•Enterprise Solutions revenue increased primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis and an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $4 million.
Enterprise Solutions operating margin increased primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs from prior period acquisitions, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom, and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
Total revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $150 million, total revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $11 million compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
Total revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $264 million, total revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased $38 million compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment, as well as a favorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
Software licenses and maintenance revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $147 million, software licenses and maintenance revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $12 million compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $9 million.
Software licenses and maintenance revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $255 million, software licenses and maintenance revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased $40 million compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment, as well as a favorable foreign exchange effect of $9 million.
Professional services revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $3 million, professional services revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange effect.
Revenue in the United States for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
International revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $74 million, international revenue increased slightly with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in subscription and maintenance and SaaS revenue, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
Revenue in the United States for the first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
International revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $97 million, international revenue increased primarily due to an increase in subscription and maintenance and SaaS revenue, as well as a favorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
Operating expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in amortization of capitalized software costs as discussed below.
Amortization of capitalized software costs for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in amortization of our internally developed software products and purchased software products.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $16 million, selling and marketing expenses for the first half of fiscal 2019 decreased $19 million compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related costs resulting from lower headcount, partially offset by an increase in costs associated with the cancellation of our annual trade show, CA World, during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
General and administrative expenses for the first half of fiscal 2019 was generally consistent compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related costs resulting from lower headcount, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom.
The software product revenue assigned to our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments is based on either (1) a list price allocation method (which allocates a discount in the total contract price to the individual products in proportion to the list price of the products); (2) allocations included within internal contract approval documents; or (3) the value for individual software products as stated in the customer contract.
Accordingly, differences in segment revenue and consolidated revenue arise primarily from (a) term and perpetual software licenses that are recognized ratably under our segment policies and in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods prior to the adoption of Topic 606 that, after adoption of Topic 606, are recognized at a point-in-time; and (b) differences in the allocations of contract value among products and services in a contract arising from the use of a relative standalone selling price allocation method in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods after adoption of Topic 606 as compared to the aforementioned approach to assigning contract value to our segments.
Mainframe Solutions revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in revenue from new sales that offset the decline in revenue contribution from renewals, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $5 million.
Mainframe Solutions operating margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was consistent compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom.
Mainframe Solutions revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in revenue from new sales that offset the decline in revenue contribution from renewals and, to a lesser extent, a favorable foreign exchange effect of $5 million.
Mainframe Solutions operating margin for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue.
Enterprise Solutions revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis and an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $4 million.
Enterprise Solutions operating margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs from prior period acquisitions, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom, and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
Enterprise Solutions revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue and a favorable foreign exchange effect of $4 million, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis.
Enterprise Solutions operating margin for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs from prior period acquisitions and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
Services revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange effect.
Operating margin for Services for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower costs resulting from severance actions associated with the Fiscal 2019 Plan.
Amounts billed or collected as a result of a single installment for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, rather than being invoiced and collected over the life of the license agreement, are reflected in the liability section of our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as “Deferred revenue and advanced payments.” Amounts received from either a customer or a third-party financial institution that are attributable to later years of a license agreement have a positive impact on billings and cash provided by operating activities in the current period.
The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash collections from billings of $152 million mainly attributable to lower single installment collections and an increase in other disbursements, net of $42 million mainly from payments associated with the Fiscal 2019 Plan, partially offset by a decrease in vendor disbursements and payroll of $84 million and a decrease in income tax payments, net of $26 million compared with the year-ago period.


item4.txt
Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”).


