fls.txt



item1.txt
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements filed with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31.
Upon adoption at January 1, 2019, the Company recognized right of use assets of $91,462 and lease liabilities of $95,784 on the consolidated balance sheet.
The difference between the initial right of use asset and lease liability balances recognized upon adoption of ASC Topic 842 is primarily due to accrued lease incentive balances at December 31, 2018.
The Company recognizes right of use assets and lease liabilities for leases greater than twelve months in duration based on the contract consideration for lease components through the term of the lease and the applicable discount rate.
Variable lease payments based on an index or rate are included in the right of use assets and lease liabilities based on the effective rates at lease commencement.
Variable lease payments not based on an index or rate are not included in the initial right of use asset and lease liability and are recognized when incurred as a component of lease expense in the statement of operations.
In addition to the noncancellable period of a lease, the Company includes periods covered by extension options it is reasonably certain to exercise, termination options that it is reasonably certain not to exercise, and extension and termination options controlled by the lessor in its determination of the lease term.
The Company paid $16,023 for its operating leases in the nine fiscal months ended September 28, 2019, which are included in operating cash flows on the consolidated condensed statement of cash flows.


item2.txt
This Management's Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A") is intended to provide an understanding of Vishay's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by focusing on changes in certain key measures from period to period.
We have paid dividends each quarter since the first fiscal quarter of 2014, and further increased the quarterly cash dividend by 12% to $0.095 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2019.
In June 2018, we used the net proceeds from issuing $600 million principal amount of new convertible senior notes to repurchase some of our outstanding convertible senior debentures, which had become less tax-efficient because of the TCJA.
As a result of these transactions, we reduced the principal amount of outstanding convertible senior debentures due 2040, 2041, and 2042 from $575 million to $36.6 million.
We continued to repurchase convertible senior debentures in open market and privately-negotiated transactions with holders, further reducing the principal amount of outstanding convertible senior debentures to $21.1 million in 2019.
The new credit facility increases the aggregate commitment of revolving loans from $640 million to $750 million; provides us with the ability to request up to $300 million of incremental facilities, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, which could take the form of additional revolving commitments, incremental “term loan A” or “term loan B” facilities, or incremental equivalent debt; reduces the undrawn commitment fee while maintaining the same borrowing rates; and provides greater operating flexibility, including with respect to intercompany funding and other transactions, to enable us to continue to streamline our complex subsidiary structure.
We repatriated approximately $73.6 million and $115.2 million to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $20.5 million and $18.3 million during the second and third fiscal quarters of 2019, respectively.
Substantially all of these amounts are being used to repay certain intercompany indebtedness, to repay the outstanding balance on the revolving credit facility, to pay the U.S. transition tax, and to fund capital expansion projects.
Additionally, we continue to closely monitor our costs, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs.
In the third fiscal quarter of 2019, we announced global cost reduction and management rejuvenation programs as part of our continuous efforts to improve efficiency and operating performance.
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2019 were $628.3 million, compared to $685.2 million and $781.0 million for the fiscal quarters ended June 29, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively.
The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2019 were $30.0 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, compared to $44.5 million, or $0.31 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2019, and $77.9 million, or $0.51 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018.
We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business.
We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment.
The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash.
Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results.


item3.txt



item4.txt
31.1 Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Dr. Gerald Paul, Chief Executive Officer.


part2.txt
Item 4.


