ITEM 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK





Interest Rate Risk



The Company’s exposure to changes in market interest rates relates primarily to interest paid on the Company’s outstanding floating rate debt. The Company’s outstanding floating rate debt consists of amounts borrowed under our revolving loan facility as well as outstanding term loans. These borrowings bear interest at the respective Eurocurrency rate (e.g. LIBOR) plus a scheduled spread. Fluctuations in market interest rates will cause interest expense increases or decreases on such outstanding debt.



As our risk management objectives include mitigating the risk of changes in cash flows attributable to changes in the designated three-month Eurocurrency rate on the Company’s Swedish kronor term loan, the Company entered into a floored interest rate swap for the aggregate notional amount borrowed changes in the cash flows of the interest rate swap is expected to exactly offset the changes in cash flows attributable to fluctuations in the three-month Eurocurrency-based interest payments. The net effect of the swap is to convert the floating interest rate basis to a fixed rate of 0.59 percent.



It is expected that a number of banks currently reporting information used to set LIBOR will stop doing so after 2021. Such an occurrence could cause LIBOR to stop publication or cause LIBOR to no longer be representative of the underlying market. We are engaged in regular dialogue with our lenders and derivatives counterparties to keep apprised of the proposed successor rates in each of the jurisdictions in which we may have a need to execute a financial transaction. Although progress has been made by the various working groups, we believe it is too early to accurately assess an impact of the LIBOR benchmark reform. 



See Note 6, "Derivative Financial Instruments - Interest Rate Swap Contracts," Note 13, "Credit Agreement," and Note 14, "Long-Term Debt," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 2 of Part I, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," for additional information on the Company's interest rate risk.



ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



None.



