fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
These estimates and assumptions have been applied using methodologies that are consistent throughout the periods presented.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation.
The Company’s adoption of ASU 2015‑11 did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
On September 15, 2017, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of Tegile Systems, Inc., a provider of flash and persistent-memory storage solutions for enterprise data center applications.
The aggregate purchase price of acquisitions during the nine months ended March 30, 2018 was $99 million in cash, with net assets acquired primarily consisting of developed technology and other intangible assets, of which $61 million was allocated to goodwill.
Goodwill is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from diversifying product offerings to its Data Center Devices and Solutions and Client Solutions end markets as well as the acquired workforce.
Goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes because the acquisitions were structured as asset acquisitions but accounted for as business combinations.
Revenues and earnings related to these acquisitions was not material.
The long-term portion of the warranty accrual classified in Other liabilities was $110 million and $125 million as of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Note 4.Fair Value Measurements and Investments Level 1.Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments.
These investments consist of debt and equity securities of privately-held companies that do not have a readily determinable fair value and are carried at historical cost.


item2.txt
See also “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately prior to Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest to June 30 and typically consists of 52 weeks.
For additional information regarding our debt facilities, see Part I, Item 1, Note 6, Debt, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”) or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
If demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand.
We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers.
As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable.
We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances.
Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss.
A significant loss of accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial condition.
We test goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, TMC, to develop and manufacture NAND-flash memory products for our NAND-flash memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) in May 2016, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger”), is dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.


