All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
These estimates and assumptions have been applied using methodologies that are consistent throughout the periods presented.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”), to reduce diversity in practice in accounting for the costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts.
Topic 606 outlines a comprehensive five-step revenue recognition model based on the principle that an entity should recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Topic 606 also requires more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
Results for reporting periods beginning with fiscal year 2019 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period information presented on the financial statements or elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is reported under the Company’s historic accounting policies under Topic 605 in effect for that period and is not adjusted to reflect the retrospective effect of the adoption of Topic 606.
These arrangements had no remaining performance obligations but were previously recognized under Topic 605 when they were reported to the Company by its licensees, which was generally one quarter in arrears from the licensees’ sales of the licensed products.
See Note 3, Revenues, for additional disclosures related to this standard.You should read this information in conjunction with the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and Part II, Item 8, contained in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018.
See also “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately prior to Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.•If demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand.
•We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers and we could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances.
•If negative or uncertain global economic conditions result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired, we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with TMC to develop and manufacture flash-based memory products for our flash-based memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results are dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
Substantially all of our flash-based memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes.