fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
These estimates and assumptions have been applied using methodologies that are consistent throughout the periods presented.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”), to reduce diversity in practice in accounting for the costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts.
This standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements upon adoption or for the three months ended September 28, 2018.
Topic 606 outlines a comprehensive five-step revenue recognition model based on the principle that an entity should recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Topic 606 also requires more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
Results for reporting periods beginning with fiscal year 2019 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period information presented on the financial statements or elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is reported under the Company’s historic accounting policies under Topic 605 in effect for that period and is not adjusted to reflect the retrospective effect of the adoption of Topic 606.
These arrangements had no remaining performance obligation but were previously recognized under Topic 605 when they were reported to the Company by its licensees, which was generally one quarter in arrears from the licensees’ sales of the licensed products.
See Note 3, Revenues, for additional disclosures related to this standard.
The Company offers a broad range of data storage products that include Client Devices, Data Center Devices and Solutions, and Client Solutions.
Client Devices consist of hard disk drives (“HDDs”) and solid state drives (“SSDs”) for computing devices; flash-based embedded storage products; and flash-based memory wafers.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to the customer.
The transaction price to be recognized as revenue is adjusted for variable consideration, such as sales incentives, and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, including taxes imposed by governmental authorities.


item2.txt
See also “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately prior to Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
The flash industry is characterized by cyclicality as it responds to variations in customers’ demand for products and manages production capacity to meet that demand.
The favorable demand environment for flash-based products during the last several quarters has begun to normalize as technology conversions are maturing and manufacturing yields are improving, thus increasing flash supply relative to demand.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
•If demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand.
•We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers and we could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances.
•If negative or uncertain global economic conditions result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired, we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with TMC to develop and manufacture flash-based memory products for our flash-based memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results are dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
Substantially all of our flash-based memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes.
A failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of captive memory capacity in Flash Ventures.
If our flash-based memory supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin or damage certain customer relationships.
TMC has announced that it is starting construction of a new wafer fabrication facility for the manufacture of 3D NAND in Kitakami, Iwate, Japan.
If we are unable to extend our partnership with TMC to the Kitakami facility on favorable terms, our future supply of captive flash-based memory could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our long-term business and financial results.


