All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
These estimates and assumptions have been applied using methodologies that are consistent throughout the periods presented.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation.
The Company’s adoption of ASU 2015‑11 did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
On September 15, 2017, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of Tegile Systems, Inc., a provider of flash and persistent-memory storage solutions for enterprise data center applications.
The aggregate purchase price of acquisitions during the six months ended December 29, 2017 was $99 million in cash, with net assets acquired primarily consisting of developed technology and other intangibles assets, of which $61 million was allocated to goodwill.
Goodwill is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from diversifying product offerings to its Data Center Devices and Solutions and Client Solutions end markets as well as the acquired workforce.
Goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes because the acquisitions were structured as asset acquisitions but accounted for as business combinations.See also “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately prior to Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest to June 30 and typically consists of 52 weeks.If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”), or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
If demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand.
We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers.
As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable.
We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances.
Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss.