Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute.
Such forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations and beliefs, including estimates and projections about our business and include, but are not limited to, statements concerning financial position, business strategy, and plans or objectives for future operations.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and may cause actual results to differ materially from management’s current expectations.
Such risks and uncertainties include those set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Item 1A.
Risk Factors”.
The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect management’s outlook at any other point in time.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason, however, readers should carefully review the risk factors set forth in other reports or documents we file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this Quarterly Report.
OVERVIEW
Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors.
Our business is significantly dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors, which in turn is dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors that is subject to seasonal trends.
We expect that the semiconductor equipment industry will continue to be seasonal in part because consumer electronics, automotive and mobility, the principal end markets for integrated circuits, are highly dynamic industries and demand has traditionally fluctuated with global consumer spending.
In light of these conditions, our results can vary significantly year-over-year.
During the first three months of 2018, our net sales increased 11% from the fourth quarter of 2017 and 17% from the first quarter of 2017.
The increase in sales was driven by market share gains for semiconductor test handlers used for testing devices used in mobility and IoT (Internet of Things) and automotive markets.
Customer test cell utilization and business conditions remain strong.
We continue to see momentum in the automotive, mobility and industrial markets and are optimistic about the prospects for our business due to the increasing ubiquity of semiconductors, the diminishing impact of parallel test, increasing semiconductor complexity and increasing quality demands from semiconductor customers.
We are continuing our investment in new products and are focused on growing our market share in the semiconductor test handling and test contactor markets, and expanding into the semiconductor inspection market.
Subsequent Event
On May 8, 2018, we announced that we entered into the Merger Agreement, dated as of May 7, 2018, by and between Cohu and Xcerra.
At the effective time of the Merger, each share of Xcerra Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger will be converted into the right to receive $9.00 in cash, without interest, and 0.2109 of a validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Cohu Common Stock.
We currently expect the Merger, which is subject to stockholder and regulatory approvals, and other customary closing conditions, to close in the second half of 2018.
Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies
Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements.
Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain.
●
revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers, which impacts our results of operations;
●
estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically product warranty, inventory reserves and allowance for bad debts, which impact gross margin or operating expenses;
●
the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, which impact our tax provision;
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
●
the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation or amortization; and
●
the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense.
Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved.
We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective.
We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business.
This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits.
Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet.
The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations.
We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets.
Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of December 30, 2017, was approximately $37.7 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $31.5 million.
Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax and tax credit and net operating loss carry-forwards.
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year, and have determined there was no impairment as of October 1, 2017, as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date.
Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates.
As of March 31, 2018, we do not believe that circumstances have occurred that indicate impairment of our goodwill is more-likely-than-not.
In the event we determine that an interim goodwill impairment review is required, in a future period, the review may result in an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations.
Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable.
Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable.
For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows.
We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value.
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1, “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
First Quarter of Fiscal 2018 Compared to First Quarter of Fiscal 2017
Net Sales
Our consolidated net sales increased 17.3% to $95.2 million in 2018, compared to net sales of $81.1 million in 2017.
Consolidated net sales in 2018 continued to benefit from favorable business conditions within the semiconductor industry and our success in growing share in the test handler and test contactor markets.
Increased sales in 2018, as compared to 2017, were driven primarily by demand for thermal subsystems for mobile processor test
Gross Margin
Our gross margin can be impacted by charges to cost of sales related to excess, obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory issues.
We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017, we recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $0.4 million and $0.1 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively.
While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns are adequate to cover known exposures at March 31, 2018, reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, as a result of our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our results of operations and gross margin in future periods.
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Income Taxes
We used the estimated effective tax rate (“ETR”) expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year in computing our interim tax provisions.
The ETR on income from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017 was 20.8% and 16.7%, respectively.
The tax provision in 2018 and 2017 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the lack of a provision (benefit) on our domestic income (losses) as a result of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates, changes in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance, state taxes and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits.
We have not adjusted our provisional tax estimates related to the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”) that we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017.
Our accounting remains incomplete as of the first three months of 2018 and will be refined and, if necessary, adjusted throughout 2018 as required by SEC SAB No.
118 based on our ongoing analysis of data and tax positions along with new guidance from regulators and interpretation of the law.
Due to the complexity of the Tax Act’s global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) tax rules, we are continuing to evaluate this provision and the application of ASC 740.
Under GAAP, we are allowed to make an accounting policy election to either (i) treat taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred or (ii) factor such amounts into a company’s measurement of its deferred taxes.
We have not yet decided on an accounting policy with respect to the new GILTI tax rules.
Our net tax provision for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 did not include any incremental amount of GILTI tax as we expect to utilize existing net operating losses, that have a full valuation allowance, to offset the impact of the GILTI inclusion.
Other than for foreign currency exchange rate changes and the Kita Acquisition, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017.
Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income
As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations and net income was $8.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
In 2017, income from continuing operations and net income was $6.8 million during the three months ended March 25, 2017.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Our primary business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors.
The cyclical and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult.
Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our businesses to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity.
We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development.
As of March 31, 2018, $79.9 million or 57% of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding taxes if we repatriate these funds.
At March 31, 2018 we accrued $2.4 million of foreign withholding tax that would be payable in the event we repatriate funds from certain of our foreign subsidiaries.
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Liquidity
Cash Flows
Capital Resources
We have credit agreements with multiple financial institutions in Japan under which they administer lines of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Kita subsidiary.
The credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $6.6 million.
At March 31, 2018 total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit were $3.3 million.
As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
We also have long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $5.8 million primarily related to the expansion of Kita’s facility in Osaka, Japan.
The loans are collateralized by the facility and land.
The loans carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.45% and expire at various dates through 2034.
At March 31, 2018, $1.3 million of the term loans have been included in current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The revolving lines of credit and term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts will fluctuate as a result of changes in currency exchange rates.
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
We also have a credit agreement with a financial institution under which it administers a line of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Ismeca subsidiary.
The agreement provides Ismeca with 2.0 million Swiss Francs of available credit and at March 31, 2018, no amounts were outstanding.
We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months.
We have a secured letter of credit facility (the “Secured Facility”) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf.
The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit and contains customary restrictive covenants.
As of March 31, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under standby letters of credit under the Secured Facility.
Xcerra Acquisition
On May 7, 2018, Cohu entered to a Merger Agreement with Xcerra and Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu.
Refer to Note 8, “Subsequent Event,” herein for further information.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., a subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG, has committed to capitalize Cohu to fund the transaction.
Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
