Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met.
In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.
Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote.
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.
Table of Contents  

  Part II    OTHER INFORMATION    

  Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
The information set forth above under Note 6 contained in the "Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) dated as of May 7, 2018 among Cohu, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Cohu”), Xcerra Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (“Xcerra”), and Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu (“Merger Sub”), Merger Sub merged with and into Xcerra (the “Merger”), with Xcerra surviving such merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu.
The Merger was effective on October 1, 2018.
Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate Xcerra, which is expected to be a complex, costly and time-consuming process.
The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits.
The failure to meet the challenges involved in the integration process and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our operations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
●   

difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where Cohu has no or limited direct prior experience;    

   ● such a new market for Cohu, the automated test equipment market, is intensely competitive with entrenched large competitors who are much larger than Cohu  

●   

successfully managing relationships with Cohu and Xcerra’s combined supplier and customer base;    

●   

coordinating and integrating independent research and development and engineering teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs;    

●   

coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the combined company’s capabilities and the direction of product development;    

●   

difficulties and significant costs in integrating the systems and processes of two companies with complex operations including multiple manufacturing sites;    

●   

the increased scale and complexity of Cohu’s operations resulting from the Merger;    

●   

Cohu’s ability to achieve the cost synergies contemplated by the proposed transaction within the expected time frame, and significant costs of integration and restructuring;    

●   

retaining key employees of Cohu and Xcerra;    

●   

obligations that Cohu will have to counterparties of Xcerra that arise as a result of the change in control of Xcerra;    

●   

the impact of litigation and potential liabilities we may be inheriting from Xcerra; and    

●   

diversion of management’s attention to integration matters.
Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and result in us becoming subject to litigation.
In addition, even if Xcerra is integrated successfully, the full anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are anticipated.
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process.
All of these factors could cause reductions in our earnings per share and decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Merger.
As a result, it cannot be assured that the Merger will result in the realization of the full or any anticipated benefits.
Table of Contents  


Although we have completed the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including restructuring expenses and the payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.
Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process.
These could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
Furthermore, we expect to incur material restructuring and integration charges in connection with the Merger, which may adversely affect our operating results in the period in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
Cohu incurred $5.2 million of acquisition related costs for the Xcerra transaction in the first nine months of 2018.
The business and financial performance of Xcerra are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
We may not be able to maintain the growth rate, levels of revenue, earnings, or operating efficiency that we and Xcerra have achieved or might achieve separately.
Any underperformance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
As a result of the Merger an ownership change has occurred at Xcerra and as a consequence Cohu’s ability to utilize Xcerra’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards, that were already limited due to a prior acquisition, will be subject to annual limitations as provided for in Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383.
These annual limitations, which are currently unknown and subject to further analysis, may result in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of these carryforwards.
In addition, Cohu must assess whether its operating loss and credit carryforwards are similarly limited as a result of the Merger.
Cohu believes that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will actually be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share.
However, Cohu cannot give any assurance that the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share.
In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”.
The total cost of the Merger will be allocated to the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective estimated fair values.
Until these allocations are completed, Cohu can only estimate the allocation of the acquisition price to the net assets acquired and the effect of the allocation on future results.
That estimate could materially change.
The Merger was financed in part by using Cohu’s and Xcerra’s cash on hand and the incurrence of indebtedness.
In connection with the Merger, Cohu entered into a term loan facility, with an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million (the “Debt Financing”).
Cohu used approximately $178 million of Cohu’s and Xcerra’s cash on hand to complete the Merger.
After completing the Merger and paying acquisition related costs, Cohu’s (including Xcerra's) estimated cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of October 1, 2018 were approximately $147.5 million.
The use of cash on hand and indebtedness to finance the acquisition has reduced Cohu’s liquidity and could cause Cohu to place more reliance on cash generated from operations to pay principal and interest on Cohu’s debt, thereby reducing the availability of Cohu’s cash flow for working capital, dividend and capital expenditure needs or to pursue other potential strategic plans.
The Debt Financing agreements contain certain negative covenants, including limitations on Cohu’s ability to incur additional liens and indebtedness or to pay dividends and make certain investments.
Cohu’s ability to comply with these negative covenants may be affected by events beyond its control.
The indebtedness and these negative covenants also has the effect, among other things, of limiting Cohu’s ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, limiting its flexibility in the conduct of its business and making Cohu more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions.
In addition, a breach of the negative covenants could result in an event of default with respect to the indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable and could have a material adverse effect on Cohu’s business, financial condition or operating results.
Cohu’s ability to meet its expense and debt service obligations contained in the Debt Financing agreements will depend on Cohu’s future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of Cohu’s products and pressure from competitors.
In addition, Cohu is subject to interest rate risks, and continuing increases in interest rates will increase Cohu’s debt service obligations.
Should Cohu’s revenues decline after the Merger, Cohu may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay its debt service obligations when due.
If Cohu is unable to meet its debt service obligations after the Merger or should Cohu fail to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing its indebtedness, Cohu may be required to refinance all or part of its debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue Cohu Common Stock or other equity securities.
Cohu may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to Cohu, in amounts sufficient to meet Cohu’s needs or at all.
If Cohu is able to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, such issuance would also result in dilution to Cohu’s stockholders.
Cohu’s inability to service its debt obligations or refinance its debt could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results after the Merger.
In addition, Cohu’s debt obligations may limit its ability to make required investments in capacity, technology or other areas of its business, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results.Furthermore, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act limits the deductibility of interest expense in a given year to 30% of adjusted taxable income, as defined.
This may result in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of its interest expense deductions.
However, the Act permits indefinite carryforward of any disallowed business interest, subject to Internal Revenue Code section 382 limitations on utilization.
Table of Contents  


The Merger was financed in part by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock to shareholders of Xcerra, comprised approximately 11.8 million shares of common stock, or approximately 29% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock immediately after completing the Merger.
These issuances of additional shares of our common stock have diluted shareholders’ ownership interest in our company, and shareholders now have a proportionately reduced ownership and voting interest in our company as a result of completion of the Merger.
●   

as a result of the Merger and the issuance of shares of Cohu Common Stock in connection with the Merger, the total amount of cash required for Cohu to pay dividends at its current rate will increase;    

   ● Cohu’s credit agreement restricts payments of dividends under certain circumstances;   

●   

Cohu may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to Cohu’s cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flow or financial position;    

●   

decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Cohu Board, which reserves the right to change Cohu’s dividend practices at any time;    

●   

rising interest rates, which increase Cohu’s debt service obligations;    

●   

Cohu may desire to retain cash to maintain or improve its credit ratings; and    

●   

the amount of dividends that Cohu’s subsidiaries may distribute to Cohu may be subject to restrictions imposed by state or foreign law, restrictions that may be imposed by state or foreign regulators, and restrictions imposed by the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur.
Upon completion of the Merger, the Cohu Board added two new members selected from members of the Xcerra Board.
There can be no assurance that the newly constituted Cohu Board will function effectively as a team and that there will not be any adverse effect on the combined company’s business as a result.
The Xcerra division has relied on Spirox Corporation (“Spirox”) as its primary distribution channel for sales and service in China and Taiwan for its Semiconductor Test Solutions products, a region that represents a material portion of Xcerra’s revenues.
Spirox has direct contact with Xcerra’s customers, and Spirox is obligated to satisfy all installation and service obligations for the Semiconductor Test Solutions products.
After a thorough review of this arrangement, on October 12, 2018, we notified Spirox of our intention to terminate the Spirox distribution agreement, effective October 12, 2019.
Our business and financial performance within the China and Taiwan region can be negatively impacted by many factors relating to Spirox, including if Spirox, for any reason, does not satisfy its obligations to customers in China and Taiwan or to us during the transition, Spirox is ineffective in its sales or service efforts or incurs difficulties in staffing and or training, if the distributor relationship between Xcerra and Spirox deteriorates during the transition, or if Cohu is delayed and otherwise fails to timely and adequately staff and fund sales and service resources in the region to replace those resources being provided by Spirox.
We are exposed to other risks associated with other acquisitions, investments and divestitures.
●   

difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses;    

●   

increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our business;    

●   

the cost and risk of having to potentially develop new and unfamiliar sales channels for acquired businesses;    

●   

diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters;    

●   

the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of Cohu or acquired businesses;    

●   

lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition;    

●   

potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses;    

●   

failure to commercialize purchased technology;    

●   

the impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill that could result in significant charges to operating results in future periods; and    

●   

challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences.
Table of Contents  

We may decide to finance future acquisitions and investments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and the use of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock.
Mergers, acquisitions and investments are inherently risky and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
At September 29, 2018, we had goodwill and net purchased intangible assets balances of $64.6 million and $13.5 million, respectively.
We are making investments in new products to enter new markets, which may adversely affect our operating results; these investments may not be successful.
Given the highly competitive and rapidly evolving technology environment in which we operate, we believe it is important to develop new product offerings to meet strategic opportunities as they evolve.
This includes developing products that we believe are necessary to meet the future needs of the marketplace.
We are currently investing in new product development programs to enable us to compete in the test contactor and wafer level package (WLP) probe and inspection markets, which includes an ongoing investment in our PANTHER platform, while also investing in next generation test handlers and automated test equipment.
We expect to continue to make investments and we may at any time, based on product need or marketplace demand, decide to significantly increase our product development expenditures in these or other products.
The cost of investments in new product offerings can have a negative impact on our operating results and PANTHER, for example, has not generated any material revenues for us.
There can be no assurance that any new products we develop will be accepted in the marketplace or generate material revenues for us.
We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
●   

costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;    

●   

legislative or regulatory requirements and potential changes in or interpretations of requirements in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;    

●   

trade restrictions, including treaty changes, sanctions and the suspension of export licenses;    

●   


●   

difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights;    

●   

longer payment cycles;    

●   

local political and economic conditions;    

●   

potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of “double taxation”; and    

●   

fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar, which can affect demand for our products and increase our costs.
Additionally, managing geographically dispersed operations presents difficult challenges associated with organizational alignment and infrastructure, communications and information technology, inventory control, customer relationship management, terrorist threats and related security matters and cultural diversities.
If we are unsuccessful in managing such operations effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.
Our reliance on overseas manufacturers exposes us to significant risks including complex management, foreign currency, legal, tax and economic risks, which we may not be able to address quickly and adequately.
In addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify overseas supplier relationships.
If we should fail to effectively manage overseas manufacturing operations, or if one or more of them should experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems, or if we had to change or add additional manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed.
Also, the addition of overseas manufacturing locations increases the demands on our administrative and operations infrastructure and the complexity of our supply chain management.
If our overseas manufacturing locations are unable to meet our manufacturing requirements in a timely manner, our ability to ship products and to realize the related revenues when anticipated could be materially affected.
Table of Contents  

Our suppliers are subject to the fluctuations in general economic cycles, and global economic conditions may impact their ability to operate their business.
They may also be impacted by possible import, export, tariff and other trade barriers, increasing costs of raw materials, labor and distribution, resulting in demands for less attractive contract terms or an inability for them to meet our requirements or conduct their own businesses.
The performance and financial condition of a supplier may cause us to alter our business terms or to cease doing business with a particular supplier, or change our sourcing practices generally, which could in turn adversely affect our own business and financial condition.
Failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely impact our operations.
We use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products.
It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies.
As a result, certain key parts may be available only from a single supplier (“sole source”) or a limited number of suppliers.
In addition, suppliers may significantly raise prices or cease manufacturing certain components (with or without advance notice to us) that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products.
On occasion, we have experienced problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various parts and components from certain key or sole source suppliers.
Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner.
The semiconductor industry we serve is seasonal, volatile and unpredictable.
Visibility into our markets is limited.
The semiconductor equipment business is highly dependent on the overall strength of the semiconductor industry.
Historically, the semiconductor industry has been seasonal with recurring periods of oversupply and excess capacity, which often have had a significant effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market.
We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment will also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns.
Any significant reductions in capital equipment investment by semiconductor integrated device manufacturers and test subcontractors will materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.
In addition, the seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of semiconductor equipment demand has in the past and may in the future expose us to significant excess and obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-offs and reserve requirements.
In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded pre-tax inventory-related charges of approximately $1.1 million, $1.1 million, and $2.4 million, respectively, primarily because of changes in customer forecasts.
More recently, in third quarter 2018, we saw slowness in the mobility market segment, which adversely impacted our third quarter 2018 sales, and fourth quarter 2018 sales guidance.
Due to the nature of our business, we need continued access to capital, which if not available to us or if not available on favorable terms, could harm our ability to operate or expand our business.
Our business requires capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors when our business is expanding.
If cash from available sources is insufficient or cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash resources and cash provided by operating activities will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next twelve months.
In the event we are required, or elect, to raise additional funds, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms, or at all, and may incur expenses in raising the additional funds and increase our interest rate exposure, and any future indebtedness could adversely affect our operating results and severely limit our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or industry.
We could also be limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in credit arrangements, including limitations on our borrowing of additional funds and issuing dividends.
If we choose to issue new equity securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution, or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock.
If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements.
Any inability to raise additional capital when required could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.
The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive.
The semiconductor test handler industry is intensely competitive and we face substantial competition from numerous companies throughout the world.
The test handler industry, while relatively small in terms of worldwide market size compared to other segments of the semiconductor equipment industry, has several participants resulting in intense competitive pricing pressures.
Future competition may include companies that do not currently supply test handlers.
Some of our competitors are part of larger corporations that have substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and customer support capabilities and provide more extensive product offerings.
In addition, there are emerging semiconductor equipment companies that provide or may provide innovative technology incorporated in products that may compete successfully against our products.
We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and introduce new products with improved performance capabilities.
Our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner, the introduction by our competitors of products with perceived or actual advantages, or disputes over rights to use certain intellectual property or technology could result in a loss of our competitive position and reduced sales of, or margins on our existing products.
Intense competition has adversely impacted our product average selling prices and gross margins on certain products.
If we are unable to reduce the cost of our existing products and successfully introduce new lower cost products, then we expect that these competitive conditions would negatively impact our gross margin and operating results in the foreseeable future.
Table of Contents  

In addition, with the acquisition of Kita in 2017, we increased our investments in our test contactor business, and announced significant growth targets for the business over the next several years.
The test contactor market is fragmented, with many entrenched regional players, and subject to intense price competition and high customer support requirements.
We believe that customer support and responsiveness and an ability to consistently meet tight deadlines is critical to our success.
If we are unable to reduce the cost of our test contactor products, while also meeting customer support requirements and deadlines, then we expect that these competitive conditions would negatively impact our gross margin and operating results in the foreseeable future.
Semiconductor equipment is subject to rapid technological change, product introductions and transitions which may result in inventory write-offs, and our new product development involves numerous risks and uncertainties.
The design, development, commercial introduction and manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is an inherently complex process that involves a number of risks and uncertainties.
These risks include potential problems in meeting customer acceptance and performance requirements, integration of the equipment with other suppliers’ equipment and the customers’ manufacturing processes, transitioning from product development to volume manufacturing and the ability of the equipment to satisfy the semiconductor industry’s constantly evolving needs and achieve commercial acceptance at prices that produce satisfactory profit margins.
The design and development of new semiconductor equipment is heavily influenced by changes in integrated circuit assembly, test and final manufacturing processes and integrated circuit package design changes.
We believe that the rate of change in such processes and integrated circuit packages is accelerating.
As a result of these changes and other factors, assessing the market potential and commercial viability of handling, MEMS, system-level and burn-in test equipment and test contactors is extremely difficult and subject to a great deal of risk.
In addition, not all integrated circuit manufacturers employ the same manufacturing processes.
Differences in such processes make it difficult to design standard test products that can achieve broad market acceptance.
As a result, we might not accurately assess the semiconductor industry’s future equipment requirements and fail to design and develop products that meet such requirements and achieve market acceptance.
Failure to accurately assess customer requirements and market trends for new semiconductor test products may have a material adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and results of operations.
The transition from product development to the manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is a difficult process and delays in product introductions and problems in manufacturing such equipment are common.
We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing and volume production of our new equipment.
In addition, as is common with semiconductor equipment, after sale support and warranty costs have typically been significantly higher with new products than with our established products.
Future technologies, processes and product developments may render our current or future product offerings obsolete and we might not be able to develop, introduce and successfully manufacture new products or make enhancements to our existing products in a timely manner to satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance.
Furthermore, we might not realize acceptable profit margins on such products.
Our operations and financial results depend on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of business spending.
Continued uncertainties may reduce future sales of our products and services.
While we believe we have a strong customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if the current market conditions deteriorate, we may experience increased collection times and greater write-offs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow.
Table of Contents  

In addition, the tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit may make it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell.
Delays in our customers’ ability to obtain such financing, or the unavailability of such financing would adversely affect our product sales and revenues and therefore harm our business and operating results.
Possible import, export, tariff and other trade barriers, which could be imposed by Asia, the United States, other countries or the European Union might also have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We cannot predict the timing, duration of or effect on our business of an economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery.
A limited number of customers account for a substantial percentage of our net sales.
A small number of customers have been responsible for a significant portion of our net sales.
During the past five years, the percentage of our sales derived from these significant customers has varied greatly.
Such variations are due to changes in the customers’ business, consolidation within the semiconductor industry and their purchase of products from our competitors.
It is common in the semiconductor test handler industry for customers to purchase equipment from more than one equipment supplier, increasing the risk that our competitive position with a specific customer may deteriorate.
No assurance can be given that we will continue to maintain our competitive position with these or other significant customers.
Furthermore, we expect the percentage of our revenues derived from significant customers will vary greatly in future periods.
The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders by these or other significant customers as a result of competitive products, market conditions including end market demand for our customers’ products, outsourcing final semiconductor test to test subcontractors that are not our customers or other factors, would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, the concentration of our revenues in a limited number of large customers is likely to cause significant fluctuations in our future annual and quarterly operating results.
If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer.
The process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our sales and results of operations.
In addition, in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products.
To address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of quality problems and appropriate solutions.
Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits.
In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our reputation, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our operating results.
The seasonal nature of the semiconductor equipment industry places enormous demands on our employees, operations and infrastructure.
The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by dramatic and sometimes rapid changes in demand for its products.
These are generally dictated by introduction of new consumer products, launch of new model vehicles, implementation of new communications infrastructure, or in response to an increase in industrial equipment and machinery that utilizes semiconductors.
A number of other factors including changes in integrated circuit design and packaging may affect demand for our products.
Sudden changes in demand for semiconductor equipment commonly occur, and have a significant impact on our operations.
We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties, particularly in manufacturing, in training and recruiting the large number of additions to our workforce.
The volatility in headcount and business levels, combined with the seasonal nature of the semiconductor industry, may require that we invest substantial amounts in new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls.
We may not be able to successfully adjust our systems, facilities and production capacity to meet our customers’ changing requirements.
The inability to meet such requirements will have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations.
The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business.
Certain key personnel are critical to our business.
Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements.
Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel.
Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel.
In addition, the cost of living in the San Diego and Bay Area, California, Boston, Massachusetts, Rosenheim and Kolbermoor, Germany, La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland and Osaka, Japan areas, where the majority of our engineering personnel are located, is high and we have had difficulty in recruiting prospective employees from other locations.
There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in these positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees.
Table of Contents  

Third parties may violate our proprietary rights or accuse us of infringing upon their proprietary rights.
We rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products.
Any of our proprietary rights may expire due to patent life, or be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.
In addition, from time-to-time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent or copyright claims.
Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses.
In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology or to substitute similar non-infringing technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
A majority of our revenues are generated from exports to foreign countries, primarily in Asia, that are subject to economic and political instability and we compete against a number of Asian test handling equipment suppliers.
The majority of our export sales are made to destinations in Asia.
Political or economic instability, particularly in Asia, may adversely impact the demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market.
In addition, we face intense competition from a number of Asian suppliers that have certain advantages over United States (“U.S.”) suppliers, including us.
These advantages include, among other things, proximity to customers, lower cost structures, favorable tariffs and affiliation with significantly larger organizations.
In addition, changes in the amount or price of semiconductors produced in Asia could impact the profitability or capital equipment spending programs of our foreign and domestic customers.
Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs.
Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with U.S. and other foreign country export and other regulations.
Compliance with complex U.S. and other foreign country laws and regulations that apply to our international sales activities increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties.
These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, the U.S. State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) and U.S. and other foreign country laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials.
Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation.
Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies, or that our policies will be effective in preventing all potential violations.
Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results.
Further, defending against claims of violations of these laws and regulations, even if we are successful, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses.
Table of Contents  

In addition to government regulations regarding sale and export, we are subject to other regulations regarding our products.
For example, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements if the materials come from, or could have come from, the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries.
These new rules and verification requirements will impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the cost of materials used in our products.
Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers that could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed.
The change in administration in the United States has resulted and may continue to result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy.
While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such additional changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could impact fuel cell market adoption in the U.S. and the alternative energy technologies sector in the U.S., generally.
Specific legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; and modifications to international trade policy, such as approvals by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; increased duties, tariffs or other restrictions; public company reporting requirements; environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement.
Recent public policy changes and new trade tariffs and restrictions between the United States and China may, in our view, create an uncertain business environment.
In particular, if tariffs or restrictions are imposed on our products or the products of our customers, there could be a negative impact on our operations and financial performance.
For example, in June, August and September, 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative (the “USTR”) published a list of products covering more than 6,000 separate U.S. tariff lines valued at approximately $250 billion in 2018 trade values, imposing an additional duty of 10% or 25% on the listed product lines.
The list generally focuses on products from industrial sectors that contribute to or benefit from the “Made in China 2025” industrial policy, which include industries such as aerospace, information and communications technology, robotics, industrial machinery, new materials, and automobiles.
We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the announced and other proposed tariffs on products that we import from China, and we may experience a material increase in the cost of our products, which may result in our products becoming less attractive relative to products offered by our competitors.
In addition, future actions, retaliation or escalations by either the United States or China that affect trade relations may also impact our business, or that of our suppliers or customers, and we cannot provide any assurances as to whether such actions will occur or the form that they may take.
To the extent that our sales or profitability are negatively affected by any such tariffs or other trade actions, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.
Our business and operations could suffer in the event of cybersecurity breaches.
Table of Contents  


We are in development stage for the global replacement of our existing ERP solution.
The new solution is being developed as an enterprise solution in partnership with a leading provider of ERP tools.
Additional investments in enterprise tools that focus on product life-cycle management, our customer experience, and supply chain management are in process to support our growing business.
These implementations are extremely complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on software and implementation activities.
If we do not effectively implement the system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could result in the loss or corruption of data, delayed order processing and shipments and increased costs.
It could also adversely affect our financial reporting systems and our ability to produce financial reports and process transactions, the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The occurrence of natural disasters and geopolitical instability caused by terrorist attacks and other threats may adversely impact our operations and sales.
Our corporate headquarters is located in San Diego, California, our Asian sales and service headquarters is located in Singapore and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in Asia.
In addition, we have manufacturing plants in Malaysia, Philippines and Japan.
These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, fires and floods, and geopolitical risks, which at times have disrupted the local economies.
For example, a significant earthquake or tsunami could materially affect operating results.
We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, or for geopolitical or terrorism impacts, and presently have limited redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a disaster.
In the event of such disaster, our business would materially suffer.
Our financial and operating results may vary and fall below analysts’ estimates, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline.
●   

seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of the semiconductor equipment industry;    

●   

timing and amount of orders from customers and shipments to customers;    

●   

customer decisions to cancel orders or push out deliveries;    

●   

inability to recognize revenue due to accounting requirements;    

●   

inventory writedowns;    

●   

unexpected expenses or cost overruns in the introduction and support of products;    

●   

inability to deliver solutions as expected by our customers; and    

●   

intangible and deferred tax asset writedowns.
Due to these factors or other unanticipated events, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be reliable indicators of our future performance.
In addition, from time-to-time our quarterly financial results may fall below the expectations of the securities and industry analysts who publish reports on our company or of investors in general.
This could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly.
We have experienced significant volatility in our stock price.
A variety of factors may cause the price of our stock to be volatile.
The stock market in general, and the market for shares of high-technology companies in particular, including ours, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies.
During the three-year period ended September 29, 2018 the price of our common stock has ranged from $27.83 to $9.38.
The price of our stock may be more volatile than the stock of other companies due to, among other factors, the unpredictable, volatile and seasonal nature of the semiconductor industry, our significant customer concentration, intense competition in the test handler industry, our limited backlog and our relatively low daily stock trading volume.
The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, including fluctuations related and unrelated to our performance.
Table of Contents  

  Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
None.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures    

Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
Table of Contents  



Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
