Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute.
Such forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations and beliefs, including estimates and projections about our business and include, but are not limited to, statements concerning financial position, business strategy, and plans or objectives for future operations.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and may cause actual results to differ materially from management’s current expectations.
Such risks and uncertainties include those set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Item 1A.
Risk Factors”.
The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect management’s outlook at any other point in time.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason, however, readers should carefully review the risk factors set forth in other reports or documents we file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this Quarterly Report.
OVERVIEW
Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors.
Our business is significantly dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors, which in turn is dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors that is subject to seasonal trends.
We expect that the semiconductor equipment industry will continue to be seasonal in part because consumer electronics, automotive and mobility, the principal end markets for integrated circuits, are highly dynamic industries and demand has traditionally fluctuated with global consumer spending.
In light of these conditions, our results can vary significantly year-over-year.
During the first nine months of 2018, our net sales increased 4.7% from the corresponding period of 2017.
This increase has been driven by improved conditions in automotive, industrial and IoT (Internet of Things) semiconductor markets and capturing new customers for semiconductor test handlers and test contactors, along with growth in sales of semiconductor inspection equipment.
Cohu’s sales in the third quarter of 2018 decreased 13.6% from the second quarter of 2018 as a result of softening in the broader market for semiconductors primarily those used in mobility applications.
We continue to see momentum in the automotive and industrial semiconductor markets and are optimistic about the prospects for our business due to the increasing ubiquity of semiconductors, the diminishing impact of parallel test, increasing semiconductor complexity and increasing quality demands from semiconductor customers.
We are continuing our investment in new products and are focused on growing sales in our semiconductor test handling and test contactor businesses and expanding into the semiconductor inspection market.
Xcerra Acquisition
On October 1, 2018, Cohu completed the acquisition of Xcerra Corporation, and Xcerra became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu (the "Merger").
In connection with the Merger, Cohu and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a Credit and Guaranty Agreement with Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, and other lenders that may from time to time be a party to the Credit and Guaranty Agreement.
Pursuant to the Credit and Guaranty Agreement, the lenders have provided Cohu with a senior secured term loan facility of $350 million to finance a portion of the cash used to complete the acquisition and to pay related costs and expenses.
See Note 8, “Acquisition of Xcerra”, located in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for further information.
Unless otherwise indicated all amounts presented herein pertain only to Cohu, Inc. and exclude the impact of Xcerra.
Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies
Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements.
Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain.
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
●
revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers, which impacts our results of operations;
●
estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically product warranty, inventory reserves and allowance for bad debts, which impact gross margin or operating expenses;
●
the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, which impact our tax provision;
●
the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation or amortization; and
●
the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense.
Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved.
We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective.
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business.
This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits.
Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet.
The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations.
We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets.
Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of September 29, 2018, was approximately $31.6 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $25.1 million.
Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax and tax credit and net operating loss carry-forwards.
We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year, and have determined there was no impairment as of October 1, 2017, as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date.
Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates.
As of September 29, 2018, we do not believe that circumstances have occurred that indicate impairment of our goodwill is more-likely-than-not.
In the event we determine that an interim goodwill impairment review is required, in a future period, the review may result in an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations.
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable.
Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable.
For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows.
We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see “Recent Accounting Pronouncements”, in Note 1 located in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Third Quarter of Fiscal 2018 Compared to Third Quarter of Fiscal 2017
Net Sales
Our consolidated net sales decreased 8.0% to $86.2 million in 2018, compared to $93.7 million in 2017.
The decrease in sales in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily a result of a softening in the broader market for semiconductors primarily those used in mobility and IoT (Internet of Things) applications.
Gross Margin
Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales.
Cost of sales consists primarily of the materials, assembly and test labor and overhead from operations.
Our gross margin can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix and volume of products sold, product support costs, increases to inventory reserves or the sale of previously reserved inventory and utilization of manufacturing capacity.
Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, was 39.9% in 2018 and 39.4% in 2017.
Gross margin in the third quarter of 2017 included a $0.6 million charge related to the amortization of purchase accounting inventory step-up adjustment recorded in connection with our acquisition of Kita.
No amounts were expensed in 2018 as all inventory step-up amounts were amortized in 2017.
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Our gross margin can be impacted by charges to cost of sales related to excess, obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory issues.
We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast.
In both the third quarter of 2018 and 2017, we recorded charges to cost of sales of $0.7 million for excess and obsolete inventory.
While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or net realizable value concerns are adequate to cover known exposures at September 29, 2018, reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, as a result of our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our gross margin in future periods.
Income Taxes
For the three months ended September 29, 2018, we used the estimated effective tax rate (“ETR”) expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year in computing our tax provision.
The ETR on income from continuing operations for the three months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, was 32.4% and 17.3%, respectively.
Our ETR for the three months ended September 29, 2018 was impacted by approximately $0.6 million of foreign withholding tax that we accrued in the event we repatriate funds from certain of our foreign subsidiaries.
The tax provision on income from continuing operations in 2018 and 2017 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the lack of a benefit on our domestic losses as a result of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates, changes in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance, state taxes and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits.
Other than for foreign currency exchange rate changes and the Kita Acquisition, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the three-month periods ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income
As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations and net income was $4.8 million in 2018, compared to $8.8 million in 2017.
First Nine Months of Fiscal 2018 Compared to First Nine Months of Fiscal 2017
Net Sales
Our consolidated net sales increased 4.7% to $281.1 million in 2018, compared to $268.6 million in 2017.
Increased sales in the first nine months of 2018 resulted from improved conditions in automotive, industrial and IoT(Internet of Things) semiconductor markets as compared to conditions in the first nine months of 2017, and from capturing new customers for semiconductor test handlers and test contactors, along with growth in sales of semiconductor inspection equipment.
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Gross Margin
In the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 we recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $1.3 million and $0.5 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively.
Income Taxes
The ETR on income from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, was 21.9% and 14.0%, respectively.
Our ETR for the nine months ended September 29, 2018 was impacted by approximately $0.6 million of foreign withholding tax that we accrued in the event we repatriate funds from certain of our foreign subsidiaries.
The tax provision on income from continuing operations in 2018 and 2017 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the lack of a benefit on our domestic losses as a result of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates, changes in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance, state taxes and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits.
Other than foreign currency exchange rate changes and the Kita Acquisition, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the nine-month periods ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income
As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations and net income was $24.6 million in 2018 as compared to income from continuing operations of $26.2 million in 2017.
Including the impact of the disposal of our discontinued mobile microwave communication equipment business, which included a loss of $0.3 million due to the write-off of the contingent consideration, our net income in the first nine months of 2017 was $25.9 million.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Our primary business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors.
The seasonal and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult.
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our business to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity.
We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development.
As of September 29, 2018, $40.0 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to make additional accruals and pay foreign or U.S. taxes if we repatriate these funds.
Liquidity
On October 1, 2018, approximately $70.5 million of Cohu’s cash and short term investments were used to fund the Merger with Xcerra.
Cash Flows
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Capital Resources
We have credit agreements with multiple financial institutions in Japan under which they administer lines of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Kita subsidiary.
The credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $6.2 million.
At September 29, 2018 total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit were $3.1 million.
As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
We also have long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $4.8 million primarily related to the expansion of Kita’s facility in Osaka, Japan.
The loans are collateralized by the facility and land.
The loans carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.45% and expire at various dates through 2034.
At September 29, 2018, $1.0 million of the term loans have been included in current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The revolving lines of credit and term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts will fluctuate as a result of changes in currency exchange rates.
We also have a credit agreement with a financial institution under which it administers a line of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Ismeca subsidiary.
The agreement provides Ismeca with 2.0 million Swiss Francs of available credit and at September 29, 2018, no amounts were outstanding.
We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months.
We have a secured letter of credit facility (the “Secured Facility”) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf.
The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit and contains customary restrictive covenants.
As of September 29, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under standby letters of credit under the Secured Facility.
Xcerra Acquisition
On October 1, 2018 Cohu completed its acquisition of Xcerra Corporation and entered into a Credit Agreement with Cohu, as borrower, certain of its subsidiaries as guarantor subsidiaries, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders, and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent, providing for a $350.0 million Credit Facility.
On October 1, 2018, Cohu borrowed the entire amount of the Credit Facility.
The proceeds of the Credit Facility were used, along with cash and cash equivalents on hand of Cohu and Xcerra, to pay the Cash Consideration (as defined below) and to pay certain fees and expenses related to the Merger and the Credit Agreement.
See “Acquisition of Xcerra”, in Note 8 located in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for further information.
Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
Table of Contents
Cohu, Inc.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Secured Term Loan Facility- Xcerra Acquisition
To provide the majority of the Cash Consideration as part of the Merger, on October 1, 2018, Cohu entered into a Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Cohu, as borrower, certain of its subsidiaries as guarantor subsidiaries, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders, and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent, providing for a $350.0 million secured term loan facility (the “Credit Facility”).
Cohu’s obligations under the Credit Facility are (and will be) guaranteed by certain of its existing and subsequently acquired or formed material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, (subject to certain exceptions and exclusions) under the Credit Facility (the “Guarantors”).
The Credit Facility is secured by a security interest in substantially all existing and after-acquired assets and property (subject to certain exceptions and exclusions) of Cohu and the Guarantors.
On October 1, 2018, Cohu borrowed the entire amount of the Credit Facility.
The proceeds of the Credit Facility were used, along with cash and cash equivalents on hand of Cohu and Xcerra, to pay the Cash Consideration and to pay certain fees and expenses related to the Merger and the Credit Agreement.
Loans under the Credit Facility amortize in equal quarterly installments equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount thereof, with the balance payable at maturity.
Subject to certain exceptions and thresholds, the Credit Facility will also require mandatory prepayments in connection with (i) excess cash flow, (ii) non-ordinary course asset sales and other dispositions and (iii) the issuance of certain debt obligations, among other things.
Cohu has the right to prepay loans under the Credit Agreement in whole or in part at any time, without premium or penalty other than a 1.00% prepayment fee in connection with certain “repricing” transactions on or before the sixth month anniversary of the closing date of the Credit Agreement.
Amounts repaid in respect of loans under the Credit Facility may not be reborrowed.
All outstanding principal and interest in respect of the Credit Facility must be repaid on or before October 1, 2025.
Loans under the Credit Facility bear interest at a floating annual rate equal to the LIBOR plus a margin of 3.00%.
While a payment or bankruptcy event of default exists, Cohu is obligated to pay a per annum default rate of interest of 2.00% in excess of the interest rate otherwise payable with respect to the overdue principal amount of any loans outstanding and overdue interest payments and other overdue fees and amounts.
The Credit Agreement has incremental facility capacity in an aggregate amount of the greater of $145 million and 100% of consolidated EBITDA, with an additional $35 million available for revolving facilities, subject to certain conditions.
Once Cohu’s first lien net leverage ratio is below a certain threshold, incremental facilities may be utilized in an unlimited amount.
The Credit Agreement contains certain customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit the ability of Cohu and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, incur debt, dispose of assets, make loans and investments, make acquisitions, make certain restricted payments, pay dividends, merge or consolidate or change their business, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
The Credit Agreement includes customary events of default that include, among other things, non-payment of principal, interest or fees, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, breach of covenants, cross-default to certain material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency and change of control.
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, the lenders may declare all outstanding principal and accrued but unpaid interest under the Credit Agreement immediately due and payable and may exercise the other rights and remedies provided under the Credit Agreement and related loan documents.
