Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met.
In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.
Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote.
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.
Table of Contents
  Part II    OTHER INFORMATION
  Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
The information set forth above under Note7 contained in the "Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
On May 8, 2018, we announced that we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), dated as of May 7, 2018, by and among Cohu, Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cohu (“Merger Sub”) and Xcerra Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (“Xcerra”).
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, the acquisition of Xcerra will be accomplished through a merger of Merger Sub with and into Xcerra (the “Merger”), with Xcerra surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cohu.
We currently anticipate that we will close the Merger in early fourth quarter 2018, but we cannot be certain when or if the conditions for the Merger will be satisfied or waived.
We intend to hold a special meeting of our stockholders on August 30, 2018, to seek stockholder approval for the issuance of additional shares of Cohu common stock as consideration in the Merger.
The Merger cannot be completed until the conditions are satisfied or waived, including receipt of our stockholders’ approval of the issuance of additional shares of Cohu common stock as consideration in the Merger, receipt of Xcerra’s stockholders’ approval of the Merger, and other customary closing conditions.
While the regulatory and antitrust approvals have been achieved, satisfying the other conditions to the closing of the Merger may take longer than we expect.
Any delay in completing the Merger could result in the failure to realize cost synergies projected to result from the Merger and other benefits that Cohu expects to achieve if we successfully complete the Merger within the expected timeframe and integrate the businesses.
Xcerra and members of the Xcerra Board are presently, and Cohu, Merger Sub and members of the Cohu Board may in the future be parties, among others, to various claims and litigation related to the Merger, including putative stockholder class actions.
Xcerra is reviewing the complaint and has not yet formally responded to it, but believes that the plaintiffs’ allegations are without merit and intends to defend against them vigorously.
However, litigation is inherently uncertain and there can be no assurance regarding the likelihood that Xcerra’s defense of the actions will be successful.
Additional complaints containing substantially similar allegations may be filed in the future.
●
we would not realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger, including among other things, increased operating efficiencies;
●
Cohu could be required to pay a termination fee of $22.8 million to Xcerra under certain circumstances, and Cohu could be required to pay the Financing Termination Fee of $45.0 million if the failure to complete the Merger related to a failure by Cohu to obtain financing;
●
significant costs in connection with the Merger that we will be unable to recover, including transaction, legal, employee-related and other costs;
●
potential loss of key personnel during the pendency of the Merger, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company;
●
Cohu will have been subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of its business, which could prevent us from making certain acquisitions or dispositions or pursuing certain business opportunities during the pendency of the Merger;
Table of Contents
●
potential legal proceedings related to the Merger;
●
the failure of the Merger to be consummated could result in negative publicity and a negative impression of Cohu in the investment community;
●
disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the Merger, including any adverse changes in its relationships with customers, strategic partners, suppliers, licensees, other business partners and employees, may continue or intensify in the event the Merger is not consummated;
●
Cohu may not be able to take advantage of alternative business opportunities or effectively respond to competitive pressures; and
●
the trading price of Cohu Common Stock may decline to the extent that the current respective market price of our stock reflects an assumption that the Merger will be completed.
The occurrence of any of these events, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on Cohu’s results of operations or the trading price of Cohu Common Stock.
Whether or not we complete the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.
Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process.
These could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
Furthermore, we expect to incur material restructuring and integration charges in connection with the Merger, which may adversely affect our operating results following the closing of the Merger in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
A delay in closing or a failure to complete the Merger could have a negative impact on our business.
Cohu incurred $4.1 million of acquisition related costs for the Xcerra transaction in the first sixth months of 2018.
Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate Xcerra, which is a complex, costly and time-consuming process.
The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits.
The failure to meet the challenges involved in the integration process and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our operations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
●
difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where Cohu has no or limited direct prior experience;
●
successfully managing relationships with Cohu and Xcerra’s combined supplier and customer base;
●
coordinating and integrating independent research and development and engineering teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs;
●
coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the combined company’s capabilities and the direction of product development;
●
difficulties and significant costs in integrating the systems and processes of two companies with complex operations including multiple manufacturing sites;
●
the increased scale and complexity of Cohu’s operations resulting from the Merger;
●
Cohu’s ability to achieve the cost synergies contemplated by the proposed transaction within the expected time frame, and significant costs of integration and restructuring;
●
retaining key employees of Cohu and Xcerra;
●
obligations that Cohu will have to counterparties of Xcerra that arise as a result of the change in control of Xcerra;
●
the impact of litigation and potential liabilities we may be inheriting from Xcerra; and
●
diversion of management’s attention to integration matters.
Table of Contents
Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and result in us becoming subject to litigation.
In addition, even if Xcerra is integrated successfully, the full anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are anticipated.
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process.
All of these factors could cause reductions in our earnings per share and decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Merger.
As a result, it cannot be assured that the Merger will result in the realization of the full or any anticipated benefits.
●
delay, defer or cease purchasing goods or services from or providing goods or services to either company;
●
delay or defer other decisions concerning, or refuse to extend credit to either company, as applicable;
●
cease further joint development activities; or
●
otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with either company, as applicable.
While Cohu is attempting to address these risks through proactive communications with its existing and prospective customers, suppliers or joint development partners, such parties may be reluctant to continue to do business with Cohu or Xcerra, as applicable, due to the potential uncertainty about, among other things, product offerings and the support and service following the consummation of the Merger.
The Merger will be financed in part by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock to shareholders of Xcerra, comprising approximately 29% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, based on the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock on July 16, 2018 and Xcerra’s estimated fully diluted shares of common stock outstanding on July 16, 2018.
These issuances of additional shares of our common stock will dilute shareholders' ownership interest in our company, and shareholders will have a proportionately reduced ownership and voting interest in our company following the completion of the Merger.
If the Merger is completed, the composition of the Cohu Board will change.
Upon completion of the Merger, the Cohu Board will include two new members selected from members of the Xcerra Board.
There can be no assurance that the newly constituted Cohu Board will function effectively as a team and that there will not be any adverse effect on the combined company’s business as a result.
The business and financial performance of Xcerra are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Following completion of the Merger, we may not be able to maintain the growth rate, levels of revenue, earnings, or operating efficiency that we and Xcerra have achieved or might achieve separately.
Any underperformance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Cohu believes that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share following the consummation of the Merger.
However, Cohu cannot give any assurance that the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share.
In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”.
The total cost of the Merger will be allocated to the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective estimated fair values.
Until the acquisition price and other factors are known, Cohu can only estimate the allocation of the acquisition price to the net assets acquired and the effect of the allocation on future results.
That estimate could materially change.
Table of Contents
The Merger will be financed in part by using Cohu’s cash on hand and the incurrence of indebtedness.
As of June 30, 2018, Cohu had approximately $127.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, approximately $23.9 million of short-term investments, and approximately $8.4 million of total debt outstanding.
In connection with the Merger, Cohu expects to enter into a term loan facility, with an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million, and if cash on hand at Xcerra is not available at the closing of the Merger, a cash bridge facility, with an aggregate principal amount of up to $100.0 million, to finance a portion of the Merger cash consideration and pay related costs and expenses (the “Debt Financing”).
The use of cash on hand and indebtedness to finance the acquisition will reduce Cohu’s liquidity and could cause Cohu to place more reliance on cash generated from operations to pay principal and interest on Cohu’s debt, thereby reducing the availability of Cohu’s cash flow for working capital, dividend and capital expenditure needs or to pursue other potential strategic plans.
Cohu expects that the agreements it will enter into with respect to the Debt Financing will contain certain negative covenants, including limitations on Cohu’s ability to incur additional liens and indebtedness or to pay dividends and make certain investments.
Cohu’s ability to comply with these negative covenants may be affected by events beyond its control.
The indebtedness and these negative covenants will also have the effect, among other things, of limiting Cohu’s ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, limiting its flexibility in the conduct of its business and making Cohu more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions.
In addition, a breach of the negative covenants could result in an event of default with respect to the indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable and could have a material adverse effect on Cohu’s business, financial condition or operating results.
Cohu’s ability to meet its expense and debt service obligations contained in the agreements Cohu expects to enter into with respect to the Debt Financing will depend on Cohu’s future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of Cohu’s products and pressure from competitors.
In addition, Cohu is subject to interest rate risks, and continuing increases in interest rates will increase Cohu’s debt service obligations.
Should Cohu’s revenues decline after the Merger, Cohu may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay its debt service obligations when due.
If Cohu is unable to meet its debt service obligations after the Merger or should Cohu fail to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing its indebtedness, Cohu may be required to refinance all or part of its debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue Cohu Common Stock or other equity securities.
Cohu may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to Cohu, in amounts sufficient to meet Cohu’s needs or at all.
If Cohu is able to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, such issuance would also result in dilution to Cohu’s stockholders.
Cohu’s inability to service its debt obligations or refinance its debt could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results after the Merger.
In addition, Cohu’s debt obligations may limit its ability to make required investments in capacity, technology or other areas of its business, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results.
●
as a result of the Merger and the issuance of shares of Cohu Common Stock in connection with the Merger, the total amount of cash required for Cohu to pay dividends at its current rate will increase;
●
Cohu may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to Cohu’s cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flow or financial position;
●
decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Cohu Board, which reserves the right to change Cohu’s dividend practices at any time;
●
Rising interest rates, which increase Cohu’s debt service obligations;
●
Cohu may desire to retain cash to maintain or improve its credit ratings; and
●
the amount of dividends that Cohu’s subsidiaries may distribute to Cohu may be subject to restrictions imposed by state or foreign law, restrictions that may be imposed by state or foreign regulators, and restrictions imposed by the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur.
Table of Contents
We are exposed to other risks associated with other acquisitions, investments and divestitures.
●
difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses;
●
increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our business;
●
the cost and risk of having to potentially develop new and unfamiliar sales channels for acquired businesses;
●
diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters;
●
the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of Cohu or acquired businesses;
●
lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition;
●
potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses;
●
failure to commercialize purchased technology;
●
the impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill that could result in significant charges to operating results in future periods; and
●
challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences.
We may decide to finance future acquisitions and investments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and the use of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock.
Mergers, acquisitions and investments are inherently risky and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
At June 30, 2018, we had goodwill and net purchased intangible assets balances of $64.8 million and $14.5 million, respectively.
We are making investments in new products to enter new markets, which may adversely affect our operating results; these investments may not be successful.
Given the highly competitive and rapidly evolving technology environment in which we operate, we believe it is important to develop new product offerings to meet strategic opportunities as they evolve.
This includes developing products that we believe are necessary to meet the future needs of the marketplace.
We are currently investing in new product development programs to enable us to compete in the test contactor and wafer level package (WLP) probe and inspection markets, which includes a significant ongoing investment in our PANTHER platform.
We expect to continue to make investments and we may at any time, based on product need or marketplace demand, decide to significantly increase our product development expenditures in these or other products.
The cost of investments in new product offerings can have a negative impact on our operating results and PANTHER, for example, has not generated any material revenues for us.
There can be no assurance that any new products we develop will be accepted in the marketplace or generate material revenues for us.
We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
●
costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;
●
legislative or regulatory requirements and potential changes in or interpretations of requirements in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;
●
trade restrictions, including treaty changes, sanctions and the suspension of export licenses;
●
●
difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights;
●
longer payment cycles;
●
local political and economic conditions;
●
potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of “double taxation”; and
●
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar, which can affect demand for our products and increase our costs.
Table of Contents
Additionally, managing geographically dispersed operations presents difficult challenges associated with organizational alignment and infrastructure, communications and information technology, inventory control, customer relationship management, terrorist threats and related security matters and cultural diversities.
If we are unsuccessful in managing such operations effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.
Our reliance on overseas manufacturers exposes us to significant risks including complex management, foreign currency, legal, tax and economic risks, which we may not be able to address quickly and adequately.
In addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify overseas supplier relationships.
If we should fail to effectively manage overseas manufacturing operations, or if one or more of them should experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems, or if we had to change or add additional manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed.
Also, the addition of overseas manufacturing locations increases the demands on our administrative and operations infrastructure and the complexity of our supply chain management.
If our overseas manufacturing locations are unable to meet our manufacturing requirements in a timely manner, our ability to ship products and to realize the related revenues when anticipated could be materially affected.
Our suppliers are subject to the fluctuations in general economic cycles, and global economic conditions may impact their ability to operate their business.
They may also be impacted by possible import, export, tariff and other trade barriers, increasing costs of raw materials, labor and distribution, resulting in demands for less attractive contract terms or an inability for them to meet our requirements or conduct their own businesses.
The performance and financial condition of a supplier may cause us to alter our business terms or to cease doing business with a particular supplier, or change our sourcing practices generally, which could in turn adversely affect our own business and financial condition.
Failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely impact our operations.
We use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products.
It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies.
As a result, certain key parts may be available only from a single supplier (“sole source”) or a limited number of suppliers.
In addition, suppliers may significantly raise prices or cease manufacturing certain components (with or without advance notice to us) that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products.
On occasion, we have experienced problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various parts and components from certain key or sole source suppliers.
Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our requirements in a timely and cost effective manner.
The semiconductor industry we serve is seasonal, volatile and unpredictable.
Visibility into our markets is limited.
The semiconductor equipment business is highly dependent on the overall strength of the semiconductor industry.
Historically, the semiconductor industry has been seasonal with recurring periods of oversupply and excess capacity, which often have had a significant effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market.
We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment will also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns.
Any significant reductions in capital equipment investment by semiconductor integrated device manufacturers and test subcontractors will materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.
In addition, the seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of semiconductor equipment demand has in the past and may in the future expose us to significant excess and obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-offs and reserve requirements.
In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded pre-tax inventory-related charges of approximately $1.1 million, $1.1 million, and $2.4 million, respectively, primarily because of changes in customer forecasts.
Due to the nature of our business, we need continued access to capital, which if not available to us or if not available on favorable terms, could harm our ability to operate or expand our business.
Our business requires capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors when our business is expanding.
If cash from available sources is insufficient or cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated.
Table of Contents
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash resources and cash provided by operating activities will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next twelve months.
In the event we are required, or elect, to raise additional funds, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms, or at all, and may incur expenses in raising the additional funds and increase our interest rate exposure, and any future indebtedness could adversely affect our operating results and severely limit our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or industry.
We could also be limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in credit arrangements, including limitations on our borrowing of additional funds and issuing dividends.
If we choose to issue new equity securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution, or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock.
If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements.
Any inability to raise additional capital when required could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.
The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive.
The semiconductor test handler industry is intensely competitive and we face substantial competition from numerous companies throughout the world.
The test handler industry, while relatively small in terms of worldwide market size compared to other segments of the semiconductor equipment industry, has several participants resulting in intense competitive pricing pressures.
Future competition may include companies that do not currently supply test handlers.
Some of our competitors are part of larger corporations that have substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and customer support capabilities and provide more extensive product offerings.
In addition, there are emerging semiconductor equipment companies that provide or may provide innovative technology incorporated in products that may compete successfully against our products.
We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and introduce new products with improved performance capabilities.
Our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner, the introduction by our competitors of products with perceived or actual advantages, or disputes over rights to use certain intellectual property or technology could result in a loss of our competitive position and reduced sales of, or margins on our existing products.
Intense competition has adversely impacted our product average selling prices and gross margins on certain products.
If we are unable to reduce the cost of our existing products and successfully introduce new lower cost products, then we expect that these competitive conditions would negatively impact our gross margin and operating results in the foreseeable future.
In addition, with the acquisition of Kita in 2017, we increased our investments in our test contactor business, and announced significant growth targets for the business over the next several years.
The test contactor market is fragmented, with many entrenched regional players, and subject to intense price competition and high customer support requirements.
We believe that customer support and responsiveness and an ability to consistently meet tight deadlines is critical to our success.
If we are unable to reduce the cost of our test contactor products, while also meeting customer support requirements and deadlines, then we expect that these competitive conditions would negatively impact our gross margin and operating results in the foreseeable future.
Semiconductor equipment is subject to rapid technological change, product introductions and transitions which may result in inventory write-offs, and our new product development involves numerous risks and uncertainties.
Table of Contents
The design, development, commercial introduction and manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is an inherently complex process that involves a number of risks and uncertainties.
These risks include potential problems in meeting customer acceptance and performance requirements, integration of the equipment with other suppliers’ equipment and the customers’ manufacturing processes, transitioning from product development to volume manufacturing and the ability of the equipment to satisfy the semiconductor industry’s constantly evolving needs and achieve commercial acceptance at prices that produce satisfactory profit margins.
The design and development of new semiconductor equipment is heavily influenced by changes in integrated circuit assembly, test and final manufacturing processes and integrated circuit package design changes.
We believe that the rate of change in such processes and integrated circuit packages is accelerating.
As a result of these changes and other factors, assessing the market potential and commercial viability of handling, MEMS, system-level and burn-in test equipment and test contactors is extremely difficult and subject to a great deal of risk.
In addition, not all integrated circuit manufacturers employ the same manufacturing processes.
Differences in such processes make it difficult to design standard test products that can achieve broad market acceptance.
As a result, we might not accurately assess the semiconductor industry’s future equipment requirements and fail to design and develop products that meet such requirements and achieve market acceptance.
Failure to accurately assess customer requirements and market trends for new semiconductor test products may have a material adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and results of operations.
The transition from product development to the manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is a difficult process and delays in product introductions and problems in manufacturing such equipment are common.
We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing and volume production of our new equipment.
In addition, as is common with semiconductor equipment, after sale support and warranty costs have typically been significantly higher with new products than with our established products.
Future technologies, processes and product developments may render our current or future product offerings obsolete and we might not be able to develop, introduce and successfully manufacture new products or make enhancements to our existing products in a timely manner to satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance.
Furthermore, we might not realize acceptable profit margins on such products.
Our operations and financial results depend on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of business spending.
Continued uncertainties may reduce future sales of our products and services.
While we believe we have a strong customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if the current market conditions deteriorate, we may experience increased collection times and greater write-offs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow.
In addition, the tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit may make it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell.
Delays in our customers’ ability to obtain such financing, or the unavailability of such financing would adversely affect our product sales and revenues and therefore harm our business and operating results.
Possible import, export, tariff and other trade barriers, which could be imposed by Asia, the United States, other countries or the European Union might also have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We cannot predict the timing, duration of or effect on our business of an economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery.
A limited number of customers account for a substantial percentage of our net sales.
A small number of customers have been responsible for a significant portion of our net sales.
During the past five years, the percentage of our sales derived from these significant customers has varied greatly.
Such variations are due to changes in the customers’ business, consolidation within the semiconductor industry and their purchase of products from our competitors.
It is common in the semiconductor test handler industry for customers to purchase equipment from more than one equipment supplier, increasing the risk that our competitive position with a specific customer may deteriorate.
No assurance can be given that we will continue to maintain our competitive position with these or other significant customers.
Furthermore, we expect the percentage of our revenues derived from significant customers will vary greatly in future periods.
The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders by these or other significant customers as a result of competitive products, market conditions including end market demand for our customers’ products, outsourcing final semiconductor test to test subcontractors that are not our customers or other factors, would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, the concentration of our revenues in a limited number of large customers is likely to cause significant fluctuations in our future annual and quarterly operating results.
Table of Contents
If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer.
The process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our sales and results of operations.
In addition, in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products.
To address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of quality problems and appropriate solutions.
Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits.
In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our reputation, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our operating results.
The seasonal nature of the semiconductor equipment industry places enormous demands on our employees, operations and infrastructure.
The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by dramatic and sometimes rapid changes in demand for its products.
These are generally dictated by introduction of new consumer products, launch of new model vehicles, implementation of new communications infrastructure, or in response to an increase in industrial equipment and machinery that utilizes semiconductors.
A number of other factors including changes in integrated circuit design and packaging may affect demand for our products.
Sudden changes in demand for semiconductor equipment commonly occur, and have a significant impact on our operations.
We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties, particularly in manufacturing, in training and recruiting the large number of additions to our workforce.
The volatility in headcount and business levels, combined with the seasonal nature of the semiconductor industry, may require that we invest substantial amounts in new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls.
We may not be able to successfully adjust our systems, facilities and production capacity to meet our customers’ changing requirements.
The inability to meet such requirements will have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations.
The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business.
Certain key personnel are critical to our business.
Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements.
Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel.
Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel.
In addition, the cost of living in the San Diego, California, Kolbermoor, Germany, La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland and Osaka, Japan areas, where the majority of our engineering personnel are located, is high and we have had difficulty in recruiting prospective employees from other locations.
There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in these positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees.
Third parties may violate our proprietary rights or accuse us of infringing upon their proprietary rights.
We rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products.
Any of our proprietary rights may expire due to patent life, or be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.
In addition, from time-to-time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent or copyright claims.
Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses.
In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology or to substitute similar non-infringing technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
Table of Contents
A majority of our revenues are generated from exports to foreign countries, primarily in Asia, that are subject to economic and political instability and we compete against a number of Asian test handling equipment suppliers.
The majority of our export sales are made to destinations in Asia.
Political or economic instability, particularly in Asia, may adversely impact the demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market.
In addition, we face intense competition from a number of Asian suppliers that have certain advantages over United States (“U.S.”) suppliers, including us.
These advantages include, among other things, proximity to customers, lower cost structures, favorable tariffs and affiliation with significantly larger organizations.
In addition, changes in the amount or price of semiconductors produced in Asia could impact the profitability or capital equipment spending programs of our foreign and domestic customers.
Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs.
Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with U.S. and other foreign country export and other regulations.
Compliance with complex U.S. and other foreign country laws and regulations that apply to our international sales activities increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties.
These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, the U.S. State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) and U.S. and other foreign country laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials.
Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation.
Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies, or that our policies will be effective in preventing all potential violations.
Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results.
Further, defending against claims of violations of these laws and regulations, even if we are successful, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses.
Table of Contents
In addition to government regulations regarding sale and export, we are subject to other regulations regarding our products.
For example, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements if the materials come from, or could have come from, the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries.
These new rules and verification requirements will impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the cost of materials used in our products.
Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers that could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed.
The change in administration in the United States has resulted and may continue to result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy.
While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such additional changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could impact fuel cell market adoption in the U.S. and the alternative energy technologies sector in the U.S., generally.
Specific legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; and modifications to international trade policy, such as approvals by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; increased duties, tariffs or other restrictions; public company reporting requirements; environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement.
Recent public policy changes and new trade tariffs and restrictions between the United States and China may, in our view, create an uncertain business environment.
In particular, if tariffs or restrictions are imposed on our products or the products of our customers, there could be a negative impact on our operations and financial performance.
For example, on June 15, 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative (the “USTR”) published a list of products covering 818 separate U.S. tariff lines valued at approximately $34 billion in 2018 trade values, imposing an additional duty of 25% on the listed product lines.
The list generally focuses on products from industrial sectors that contribute to or benefit from the “Made in China 2025” industrial policy, which include industries such as aerospace, information and communications technology, robotics, industrial machinery, new materials, and automobiles.
The USTR also announced a second set of 284 proposed tariff lines, which cover approximately $16 billion worth of imports from China, which will undergo further review in a public notice and comment process, including a public hearing.
After completion of this process, USTR stated that it will issue a final determination on the products from this list that would be subject to the additional duties.
We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the announced and other proposed tariffs on products that we import from China, and we may experience a material increase in the cost of our products, which may result in our products becoming less attractive relative to products offered by our competitors.
In addition, future actions, retaliation or escalations by either the United States or China that affect trade relations may also impact our business, or that of our suppliers or customers, and we cannot provide any assurances as to whether such actions will occur or the form that they may take.
To the extent that our sales or profitability are negatively affected by any such tariffs or other trade actions, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.
Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches.
Table of Contents
Our implementation of enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.
We recently implemented a new ERP system within our Switzerland and Malaysia operations, to conform these operations to the same ERP system used within our other principal business locations.
We intend to continue to make investments and upgrades to our global ERP systems to support our business requirements.
ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities.
If we do not effectively implement the ERP system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect our financial reporting systems and our ability to produce financial reports and process transactions, the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The occurrence of natural disasters and geopolitical instability caused by terrorist attacks and other threats may adversely impact our operations and sales.
Our Corporate headquarters is located in San Diego, California, our Asian sales and service headquarters is located in Singapore and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in Asia.
In addition, we have manufacturing plants in Malaysia, Philippines and Japan.
These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, fires and floods, and geopolitical risks, which at times have disrupted the local economies.
For example, a significant earthquake or tsunami could materially affect operating results.
We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, or for geopolitical or terrorism impacts, and presently have limited redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a disaster.
In the event of such disaster, our business would materially suffer.
Our financial and operating results may vary and fall below analysts’ estimates, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline.
    ●
seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of the semiconductor equipment industry;
    ●
timing and amount of orders from customers and shipments to customers;
●
customer decisions to cancel orders or push out deliveries;
●
inability to recognize revenue due to accounting requirements;
●
inventory writedowns;
●
unexpected expenses or cost overruns in the introduction and support of products;
●
inability to deliver solutions as expected by our customers; and
●
intangible and deferred tax asset writedowns.
Due to these factors or other unanticipated events, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be reliable indicators of our future performance.
In addition, from time-to-time our quarterly financial results may fall below the expectations of the securities and industry analysts who publish reports on our company or of investors in general.
This could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly.
We have experienced significant volatility in our stock price.
A variety of factors may cause the price of our stock to be volatile.
The stock market in general, and the market for shares of high-technology companies in particular, including ours, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies.
During the three-year period ended June 30, 2018 the price of our common stock has ranged from $26.17 to $9.14.
The price of our stock may be more volatile than the stock of other companies due to, among other factors, the unpredictable, volatile and seasonal nature of the semiconductor industry, our significant customer concentration, intense competition in the test handler industry, our limited backlog and our relatively low daily stock trading volume.
The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, including fluctuations related and unrelated to our performance.
Table of Contents
  Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
None.
  Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
  Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
  Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
