Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met.
In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.
Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote.
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.
During the three months ended March 30, 2019, we implemented a new lease accounting system and related internal controls in response to the adoption of ASU No.
2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842),” effective December 30, 2018.
These implementations resulted in a material change in a component of our internal control over financial reporting.
Table of Contents  

Part II OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
The information set forth above under Note 11 contained in the "Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Cohu acquired Xcerra Corporation (“Xcerra”) on October 1, 2018, at which time Xcerra became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu (the “Merger”).
Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate Xcerra, which is expected to be a complex, costly and time-consuming process.
The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively or delayed, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits.
The failure to meet the challenges involved in the integration process and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our operations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and result in us becoming subject to litigation.
In addition, even if Xcerra is integrated successfully, the full anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are anticipated.
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process.
All of these factors could cause reductions in our earnings per share and decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Merger.
As a result, it cannot be assured that the Merger will result in the realization of the full or any anticipated benefits.
Table of Contents  

We have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger that could adversely affect our results of operations.
Although we have completed the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including restructuring expenses and the payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.
Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process, and restructuring charges may significantly exceed original estimates.
For example, a significant portion of planned cost synergies relate to headcount reductions, primarily in foreign jurisdictions where the labor laws are complex.
Any delays in implementing such headcount reductions, or increased costs to implement, would materially impact the cost synergies achieved.
These could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
Furthermore, we expect to incur material restructuring and integration charges in connection with the Merger, which may adversely affect our operating results in the period in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
Cohu incurred $9.8 million and $0.2 million of acquisition-related costs, and $37.8 million and $1.8 million of restructuring charges, for the Xcerra acquisition during fiscal year 2018 and first three months of fiscal 2019, respectively.
Xcerra may underperform relative to our expectations.
The business and financial performance of Xcerra are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
We may not be able to maintain the growth rate, levels of revenue, earnings, or operating efficiency that we and Xcerra have achieved or might achieve separately.
Any underperformance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Cohu’s ability to utilize Xcerra’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards is severely limited.
As a result of the Merger an ownership change has occurred at Xcerra and as a consequence Cohu’s ability to utilize Xcerra’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards, that were already partially limited due to a prior acquisition, will be subject to annual limitations as provided for in Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383.
These annual limitations will result in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of these carryforwards.
Uncertainties underlie Cohu’s expectation that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share.
Cohu believes that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share upon completion of the ongoing restructuring and integration.
However, Cohu cannot give any assurance that the Merger will actually be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share.
In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”.
The total cost of the Merger will be allocated to the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective estimated fair values.
Until these allocations are completed, Cohu can only estimate the allocation of the acquisition price to the net assets acquired and the effect of the allocation on future results.
That estimate could materially change.
The use of cash and incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the Merger may have an adverse impact on Cohu’s liquidity, limit Cohu’s flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase Cohu’s vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
The Merger was financed in part by using Cohu’s and Xcerra’s cash on hand and the incurrence of indebtedness.
In connection with the Merger, Cohu entered into a term loan facility, with an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million (the “Debt Financing” or “Credit Agreement”).
Cohu used $160.5 million of Cohu’s and Xcerra’s cash on hand to complete the Merger.
Cohu’s (including Xcerra’s) cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of March 30, 2019 were approximately $160.1 million.
The use of cash on hand and indebtedness to finance the acquisition has reduced Cohu’s liquidity and could cause Cohu to place more reliance on cash generated from operations to pay principal and interest on Cohu’s debt, thereby reducing the availability of Cohu’s cash flow for working capital, dividend and capital expenditure needs or to pursue other potential strategic plans.
●   

incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;    

●   

issue redeemable stock and preferred stock;    

●   

pay dividends or make distributions on capital stock, repurchase, redeem or make payments on capital stock;    

●   

make loans, investments or acquisitions;    


Table of Contents  

●   

enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries;    

●   

create or permit restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us or to guarantee our debt, limit our or any of our subsidiaries’ ability to create liens, or that require the grant of a lien to secure an obligation if a lien is granted to secure another obligation;    

●   

sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries;    

●   

enter into certain transactions with affiliates;    

●   

sell, transfer, license, lease or dispose of our or our subsidiaries’ assets; and    

●   

dissolve, liquidate, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all the assets of us and our subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to, another person.
●   

finance our operations;    

●   

make needed capital expenditures;    

●   

make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances;    

●   

withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general;    

●   

engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and    

●   

plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies.
Our ability to comply with covenants contained in such debt agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions.
Even if we are able to comply with all of the applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to manage our business in our sole discretion could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that we believe would be beneficial to us.
In addition, our obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured, on a first-priority basis, and such security interests could be enforced in the event of default by the collateral agent for the Credit Agreement.
Because of high debt levels, Cohu has total consolidated long-term debt of $343 million, and may not be able to service its debt obligations in accordance with their terms; the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act severely limits the deductibility of interest expense.
Cohu’s ability to meet its expense and debt service obligations contained in the Debt Financing agreements will depend on Cohu’s future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of Cohu’s products and pressure from competitors.
In addition, Cohu is subject to interest rate risks, and continuing increases in interest rates will increase Cohu’s debt service obligations.
Should combined Cohu and Xcerra revenues decline after the Merger (as compared to last year), as they did in first quarter 2019 and are again forecasted to do so in second quarter 2019, Cohu may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay its debt service obligations when due.
If Cohu is unable to meet its debt service obligations after the Merger or should Cohu fail to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing its indebtedness, Cohu may be required to refinance all or part of its debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue Cohu Common Stock or other equity securities.
Cohu may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to Cohu, in amounts sufficient to meet Cohu’s needs or at all.
If Cohu is able to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, such issuance would also result in dilution to Cohu’s stockholders.
Cohu’s inability to service its debt obligations or refinance its debt could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results after the Merger.
In addition, Cohu’s debt obligations may limit its ability to make required investments in capacity, technology or other areas of its business, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results.
Furthermore, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act limits the deductibility of interest expense in a given year to 30% of adjusted taxable income, as defined.
This resulted in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of its interest expense deductions in 2018 and may impact our ability to utilize future deductions.
However, the Act permits indefinite carryforward of any disallowed business interest, subject to Internal Revenue Code section 382 limitations on utilization.
Table of Contents  

The issuance of shares of our common stock in connection with the Merger, and any future offerings of securities by us, will dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest in the company.
The Merger was financed in part by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock to shareholders of Xcerra, comprised approximately 11.8 million shares of common stock, or approximately 29% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock immediately after completing the Merger.
These issuances of additional shares of our common stock have diluted shareholders’ ownership interest in our company, and shareholders now have a proportionately reduced ownership and voting interest in our company as a result of completion of the Merger.
Because a significant portion of Cohu’s total assets will be represented by goodwill, which is subject to mandatory impairment evaluation, and other intangibles, Cohu could be required to write off some or all of this goodwill and other intangibles, which may adversely affect the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations.
Cohu has accounted for the acquisition of Xcerra using the purchase method of accounting.
A portion of the purchase price for this business was allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities based on estimated fair values at the date of consummation of the merger.
As a result of the Merger, 49.2% of Cohu’s total assets are comprised of goodwill and other intangibles, of which approximately $239.3 million is allocated to goodwill.
In accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications of impairment.
All other intangible assets are subject to periodic amortization.
Cohu evaluates the remaining useful lives of other intangibles each quarter to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization.
If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger, when Cohu performs future impairment tests, it is possible that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets could exceed their implied fair value and therefore would require adjustment.
Such adjustment would result in a charge to operating income in that period.
Once adjusted, there can be no assurance that there will not be further adjustments for impairment in future periods.
If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting.
We are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls.
Completing the Merger has significantly increased the size, number of employees, global operations and complexity of Cohu’s business.
Although we believe that we have adequate internal controls in place at this time, we cannot be certain that, with significantly greater global complexity, we will be able to maintain adequate internal control over our financial reporting in future periods.
Any failure to maintain such internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis.
If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations.
Likewise, if our financial statements are not filed on a timely basis as required by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq Global Select Market, we could face severe consequences from those authorities.
In either case, there could result a material adverse effect on our business.
Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock.
Cohu may discover liabilities or deficiencies associated with Xcerra that were not identified in advance.
We may discover liabilities or deficiencies associated with Xcerra that were not identified in advance, which may result in significant unanticipated costs, including potential accounting and tax charges.
The effectiveness of our due diligence review and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence are ultimately dependent upon the accuracy and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by Xcerra, as well as the limited amount of time in which the acquisition was executed.
Cohu cannot provide assurance that it will be able to continue paying dividends at the current rate.
●   

as a result of the Merger and the issuance of shares of Cohu Common Stock in connection with the Merger, the total amount of cash required for Cohu to pay dividends at its current rate will increase;    

●   

Cohu’s credit agreement restricts payments of dividends under certain circumstances;    

●   

Cohu may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to Cohu’s cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flow or financial position;    

●   

decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Cohu Board, which reserves the right to change Cohu’s dividend practices at any time;    


Table of Contents  

●   

rising interest rates, which increase Cohu’s debt service obligations;    

●   

Cohu may desire to retain cash to maintain or improve its credit ratings;    

●   

difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses; and    

●   

the amount of dividends that Cohu’s subsidiaries may distribute to Cohu may be subject to restrictions imposed by state or foreign law, restrictions that may be imposed by state or foreign regulators, and restrictions imposed by the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur.
The Xcerra division has relied on Spirox Corporation (“Spirox”) as its primary distribution channel for sales and service in China and Taiwan for its Semiconductor Test Solutions products, a region that represents a material portion of Xcerra’s revenues.
Spirox has had direct contact with Xcerra’s customers, and Spirox has been obligated to satisfy all installation and service obligations for the Semiconductor Test Solutions products.
After a thorough review of this arrangement, on October 12, 2018, we notified Spirox of our intention to terminate the Spirox distribution agreement, and subsequently negotiated an accelerated wind-down and termination date of March 12, 2019.
Our business and financial performance within the China and Taiwan region may be negatively impacted if cooperation with Spirox during the transition fails, if Cohu is delayed and otherwise fails to timely and adequately staff and fund sales and service resources in the region to replace those resources that have previously been provided by Spirox, or if customers delay or fail, for any reason, to transition to direct sales with us.
We are exposed to other risks associated with acquisitions, investments and divestitures.
●   

difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses;    

●   

increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our business;    

●   

the cost and risk of having to potentially develop new and unfamiliar sales channels for acquired businesses;    

●   

diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters;    

●   

the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of Cohu or acquired businesses;    

●   

lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition;    

●   

potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses;    

●   

failure to commercialize purchased technology;    

●   

the impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill that could result in significant charges to operating results in future periods; and    

●   

challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences.
We may decide to finance future acquisitions and investments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and the use of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock.
Mergers, acquisitions and investments are inherently risky and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
At March 30, 2019, we had goodwill and net purchased intangible assets balances of $239.3 million and $305.3 million, respectively.
We are making investments in new products to enter new markets, which may adversely affect our operating results; these investments may not be successful.
Given the highly competitive and rapidly evolving technology environment in which we operate, we believe it is important to develop new product offerings to meet strategic opportunities as they evolve.
This includes developing products that we believe are necessary to meet the future needs of the marketplace.
We are currently investing in new product development programs to enable us to compete in the test contactor markets, while also investing in next generation test handlers and automated test equipment.
We expect to continue to make investments and we may at any time, based on product need or marketplace demand, decide to significantly increase our product development expenditures in these or other products.
The cost of investments in new product offerings can have a negative impact on our operating results.
For example, our PANTHER wafer level package probe system has incurred significant development costs, but has not generated material revenues for us.
There can be no assurance that new products we develop will be accepted in the marketplace or generate material revenues for us.
Table of Contents  

We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
●   

costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;    

●   

legislative or regulatory requirements and potential changes in or interpretations of requirements in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;    

●   

trade restrictions, including treaty changes, sanctions and the suspension of export licenses;    

●   


●   

complex labor laws and privacy regulations;    

●   

difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights;    

●   

longer payment cycles;    

●   

local political and economic conditions;    

●   

complex tax laws and potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of “double taxation;” and    

●   

fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar, which can affect demand for our products and increase our costs.
Additionally, managing geographically dispersed operations presents difficult challenges associated with organizational alignment and infrastructure, communications and information technology, inventory control, customer relationship management, terrorist threats and related security matters and cultural diversities.
If we are unsuccessful in managing such operations effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.
We have manufacturing operations in Asia.
Any failure to effectively manage multiple manufacturing sites and to secure raw materials meeting our quality, cost and other requirements, or failures by our suppliers to perform, could harm our sales, service levels and reputation.
Our reliance on overseas manufacturers exposes us to significant risks including complex management, foreign currency, legal, tax and economic risks, which we may not be able to address quickly and adequately.
In addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify overseas supplier relationships.
If we should fail to effectively manage overseas manufacturing operations, or if one or more of them should experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems, or if we had to change or add additional manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed.
Also, the addition of overseas manufacturing locations increases the demands on our administrative and operations infrastructure and the complexity of our supply chain management.
If our overseas manufacturing locations are unable to meet our manufacturing requirements in a timely manner, our ability to ship products and to realize the related revenues when anticipated could be materially affected.
Our suppliers are subject to the fluctuations in general economic cycles, and global economic conditions may impact their ability to operate their business.
They may also be impacted by possible import, export, tariff and other trade barriers, increasing costs of raw materials, labor and distribution, resulting in demands for less attractive contract terms or an inability for them to meet our requirements or conduct their own businesses.
The performance and financial condition of a supplier may cause us to alter our business terms or to cease doing business with a particular supplier, or change our sourcing practices generally, which could in turn adversely affect our own business and financial condition.
Failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely impact our operations.
We use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products.
It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies.
As a result, many key parts may be available only from a single supplier (“sole source”) or a limited number of suppliers.
In addition, suppliers may significantly raise prices or cease manufacturing certain components (with or without advance notice to us) that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products.
On occasion, we have experienced problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various parts and components from certain key or sole source suppliers.
Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner.
Table of Contents  

The semiconductor industry we serve is seasonal, volatile and unpredictable.
Visibility into our markets is limited.
The semiconductor equipment business is highly dependent on the overall strength of the semiconductor industry.
Historically, the semiconductor industry has been seasonal with recurring periods of oversupply and excess capacity, which often have had a significant effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market.
We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment will also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns.
Any significant reductions in capital equipment investment by semiconductor integrated device manufacturers and test subcontractors will materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.
In addition, the seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of semiconductor equipment demand has in the past and may in the future expose us to significant excess and obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-offs and reserve requirements.
In 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recorded pre-tax inventory-related charges of approximately $1.4 million, $1.1 million, and $1.1 million, respectively, primarily as a result of changes in customer forecasts.
More recently, in the second half of 2018 and continuing into 2019, we have seen weakening demand in mobility and consumer market segments, and overall geographic weakness in China and Taiwan.
These trends adversely affected our third and fourth quarter 2018 results, first quarter 2019 results, and are expected to continue to adversely impact our 2019 outlook and results.
Finally, in 2018 we incurred $19.1 million of inventory charges related to the decision to end manufacturing of certain of Xcerra’s semiconductor test handler products, and these charges may be insufficient as market conditions and demand changes.
Due to the nature of our business, we need continued access to capital, which if not available to us or if not available on favorable terms, could harm our ability to operate or expand our business.
Our business requires capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors when our business is expanding.
If cash from available sources is insufficient or cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash resources and cash provided by operating activities will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next twelve months.
In the event we are required, or elect, to raise additional funds, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms, or at all, and may incur expenses in raising the additional funds and increase our interest rate exposure, and any future indebtedness could adversely affect our operating results and severely limit our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or industry.
Further, under our Credit Agreement, we are significantly limited by financial and other negative covenants in our credit arrangements, including limitations on our borrowing of additional funds and issuing dividends.
If we choose to issue new equity securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution, or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock.
If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements.
Any inability to raise additional capital when required could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.
The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive.
The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive and we face substantial competition from numerous companies throughout the world.
The test handler industry, while relatively small in terms of worldwide market size compared to other segments of the semiconductor equipment industry, has several participants resulting in intense competitive pricing pressures.
Future competition may include companies that do not currently supply test handlers.
Some of our competitors are part of larger corporations that have substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and customer support capabilities and provide more extensive product offerings.
In addition, there are emerging semiconductor equipment companies that provide or may provide innovative technology incorporated in products that may compete successfully against our products.
We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and introduce new products with improved performance capabilities.
Our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner, the introduction by our competitors of products with perceived or actual advantages, or disputes over rights to use certain intellectual property or technology could result in a loss of our competitive position and reduced sales of, or margins on our existing products.
Intense competition has adversely impacted our product average selling prices and gross margins on certain products.
If we are unable to reduce the cost of our existing products and successfully introduce new lower cost products, then we expect that these competitive conditions would negatively impact our gross margin and operating results in the foreseeable future.
We have increased investments in our test contactor business, and announced significant growth targets for the business over the next several years.
The test contactor market is fragmented, with many entrenched regional players, and subject to intense price competition and high customer support requirements.
We believe that customer support and responsiveness and an ability to consistently meet tight deadlines is critical to our success.
If we are unable to reduce the cost of our test contactor products, while also meeting customer support requirements and deadlines, then we expect that these competitive conditions would negatively impact our gross margin and operating results in the foreseeable future.
Table of Contents  

In addition, with the Xcerra acquisition, Cohu has entered the automated test equipment (“ATE”) market.
Our ability to increase our ATE sales will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain orders from new customers.
Semiconductor and electronics manufacturers typically select a particular vendor’s product for testing new generations of a device and make substantial investments to develop related test program applications and interfaces.
Once a manufacturer has selected an ATE vendor for a new generation of a device, that manufacturer is more likely to purchase systems from that vendor for that generation of the device, and, possibly, subsequent generations of that device as well.
Further, Cohu has a niche position and relatively low share in the ATE market, and this market is primarily driven by two larger companies with significantly more resources to invest into the ATE market.
Therefore, the opportunities to obtain orders from new customers or existing customers may be limited, which may impair our ability to grow our ATE revenue.
Semiconductor equipment is subject to rapid technological change, product introductions and transitions which may result in inventory write-offs, and our new product development involves numerous risks and uncertainties.
The design, development, commercial introduction and manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is an inherently complex process that involves a number of risks and uncertainties.
These risks include potential problems in meeting customer acceptance and performance requirements, integration of the equipment with other suppliers’ equipment and the customers’ manufacturing processes, transitioning from product development to volume manufacturing and the ability of the equipment to satisfy the semiconductor industry’s constantly evolving needs and achieve commercial acceptance at prices that produce satisfactory profit margins.
The design and development of new semiconductor equipment is heavily influenced by changes in integrated circuit assembly, test and final manufacturing processes and integrated circuit package design changes.
We believe that the rate of change in such processes and integrated circuit packages is accelerating.
As a result of these changes and other factors, assessing the market potential and commercial viability of handling, ATE, MEMS, system-level and burn-in test equipment and test contactors is extremely difficult and subject to a great deal of risk.
In addition, not all integrated circuit manufacturers employ the same manufacturing processes.
Differences in such processes make it difficult to design standard test products that can achieve broad market acceptance.
As a result, we might not accurately assess the semiconductor industry’s future equipment requirements and fail to design and develop products that meet such requirements and achieve market acceptance.
Failure to accurately assess customer requirements and market trends for new semiconductor test products may have a material adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and results of operations.
The transition from product development to the manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is a difficult process and delays in product introductions and problems in manufacturing such equipment are common.
We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing and volume production of our new equipment.
In addition, as is common with semiconductor equipment, after sale support and warranty costs have typically been significantly higher with new products than with our established products.
Future technologies, processes and product developments may render our current or future product offerings obsolete and we might not be able to develop, introduce and successfully manufacture new products or make enhancements to our existing products in a timely manner to satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance.
Furthermore, we might not realize acceptable profit margins on such products.
Global economic conditions may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict.
Our operations and financial results depend on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of business spending.
Continued uncertainties may reduce future sales of our products and services.
While we believe we have a strong customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if the current market conditions deteriorate, we may experience increased collection times and greater write-offs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow.
In addition, the tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit may make it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell.
Delays in our customers’ ability to obtain such financing, or the unavailability of such financing would adversely affect our product sales and revenues and therefore harm our business and operating results.
Possible import, export, tariff and other trade barriers, which could be imposed by Asia, the United States, other countries or the European Union might also have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We cannot predict the timing, duration of or effect on our business of an economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery.
Table of Contents  

A limited number of customers account for a substantial percentage of our net sales.
A small number of customers have been responsible for a significant portion of our net sales.
During the past five years, the percentage of our sales derived from these significant customers has varied greatly.
Such variations are due to changes in the customers’ business, consolidation within the semiconductor industry and their purchase of products from our competitors.
It is common in the semiconductor equipment industry for customers to purchase products from more than one equipment supplier, increasing the risk that our competitive position with a specific customer may deteriorate.
No assurance can be given that we will continue to maintain our competitive position with these or other significant customers.
Furthermore, we expect the percentage of our revenues derived from significant customers will vary greatly in future periods.
The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders by these or other significant customers as a result of competitive products, market conditions including end market demand for our customers’ products, outsourcing final semiconductor test to test subcontractors that are not our customers or other factors, would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, the concentration of our revenues in a limited number of large customers is likely to cause significant fluctuations in our future annual and quarterly operating results.
If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer.
The process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our sales and results of operations.
In addition, in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products.
To address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of quality problems and appropriate solutions.
Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits.
In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our reputation, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our operating results.
The seasonal nature of the semiconductor equipment industry places enormous demands on our employees, operations and infrastructure.
The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by dramatic and sometimes rapid changes in demand for its products.
These are generally dictated by introduction of new consumer products, launch of new model vehicles, implementation of new communications infrastructure, or in response to an increase in industrial equipment and machinery that utilizes semiconductors.
A number of other factors including changes in integrated circuit design and packaging may affect demand for our products.
Sudden changes in demand for semiconductor equipment commonly occur, and have a significant impact on our operations.
We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties, particularly in manufacturing, in training and recruiting the large number of additions to our workforce.
The volatility in headcount and business levels, combined with the seasonal nature of the semiconductor industry, may require that we invest substantial amounts in new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls.
We may not be able to successfully adjust our systems, facilities and production capacity to meet our customers’ changing requirements.
The inability to meet such requirements will have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations.
For example, in the second half of 2018 and continuing into 2019, we have seen weakening demand in mobility and consumer market segments, and overall geographic weakness in China and Taiwan.
These trends adversely affected our third and fourth quarter 2018 results, first quarter 2019 results, and are expected to continue to adversely impact our 2019 outlook and results as well.
The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business.
Certain key personnel are critical to our business.
Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements.
Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel.
Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel.
In addition, the cost of living in the San Diego and Bay Area, California, Boston, Massachusetts, Rosenheim and Kolbermoor, Germany, La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland and Osaka, Japan areas, where the majority of our engineering personnel are located, is high and we have had difficulty in recruiting prospective employees from other locations.
There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in these positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees.
Table of Contents  

Third parties may violate our proprietary rights or accuse us of infringing upon their proprietary rights.
We rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products.
Any of our proprietary rights may expire due to patent life, or be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.
In addition, from time-to-time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent or copyright claims.
Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses.
In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology or to substitute similar non-infringing technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
A majority of our revenues are generated from exports to foreign countries, primarily in Asia, that are subject to economic and political instability and we compete against a number of Asian test handling equipment suppliers.
The majority of our export sales are made to destinations in Asia.
Political or economic instability, particularly in Asia, may adversely impact the demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market.
In addition, we face intense competition from a number of Asian suppliers that have certain advantages over United States (“U.S.”) suppliers, including us.
These advantages include, among other things, proximity to customers, lower cost structures, favorable tariffs and affiliation with significantly larger organizations.
In addition, changes in the amount or price of semiconductors produced in Asia could impact the profitability or capital equipment spending programs of our foreign and domestic customers.
Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, enactment of new tax laws, or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.
Table of Contents  

Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs.
Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with U.S. and other foreign country export and other regulations.
Compliance with complex U.S. and other foreign country laws and regulations that apply to our international sales activities increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties.
These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, the U.S. State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) and U.S. and other foreign country laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials.
Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation.
Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies, or that our policies will be effective in preventing all potential violations.
Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results.
Further, defending against claims of violations of these laws and regulations, even if we are successful, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses.
In addition to government regulations regarding sale and export, we are subject to other regulations regarding our products.
For example, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements if the materials come from, or could have come from, the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries.
These new rules and verification requirements will impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the cost of materials used in our products.
Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers that could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed.
There may be changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and governmental policy in the United States.
The change in administration in the United States has resulted and may continue to result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy.
While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such additional changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could impact fuel cell market adoption in the U.S. and the alternative energy technologies sector in the U.S., generally.
Specific legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; and modifications to international trade policy, such as approvals by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; increased duties, tariffs or other restrictions; public company reporting requirements; environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement.
Global economic and political conditions, including trade tariffs and restrictions, may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict.
Recent public policy changes and new trade tariffs and restrictions between the United States and China may, in our view, create an uncertain business environment.
In particular, if tariffs or restrictions are imposed on our products or the products of our customers, there could be a negative impact on our operations and financial performance.
For example, in June, August and September, 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative (the “USTR”) published a list of products covering more than 6,000 separate U.S. tariff lines valued at approximately $250 billion in 2018 trade values, imposing an additional duty of 10% or 25% on the listed product lines.
The list generally focuses on products from industrial sectors that contribute to or benefit from the “Made in China 2025” industrial policy, which include industries such as aerospace, information and communications technology, robotics, industrial machinery, new materials, and automobiles.
We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the announced and other proposed tariffs on products that we import from China, and we may experience a material increase in the cost of our products, which may result in our products becoming less attractive relative to products offered by our competitors.
As of the date of this filing, there remains considerable uncertainty regarding U.S. – China trade relations.
Future actions, retaliation or further escalations by either the U.S. or China that affect trade relations may also impact our business, or that of our suppliers or customers, and we cannot provide any assurances as to whether such actions will occur or the form that they may take.
To the extent that our sales or profitability are negatively affected by any such tariffs or other trade actions, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.
Our business and operations could suffer in the event of cybersecurity breaches.
Table of Contents  

Our global Enterprise Resource Management (“ERP”) upgrade may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.
We are in development stage for the global replacement of our existing ERP solution.
The new solution is being developed as an enterprise solution in partnership with a leading provider of ERP tools.
Additional investments in enterprise tools that focus on product life-cycle management, our customer experience, and supply chain management are in process to support our growing business.
These implementations are extremely complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on software and implementation activities.
If we do not effectively implement the system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could result in the loss or corruption of data, delayed order processing and shipments and increased costs.
It could also adversely affect our financial reporting systems and our ability to produce financial reports and process transactions, the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The occurrence of natural disasters and geopolitical instability caused by terrorist attacks and other threats may adversely impact our operations and sales.
Our corporate headquarters is located in San Diego, California, our Asian sales and service headquarters is located in Singapore and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in Asia.
In addition, we have Asia-based manufacturing plants in Malaysia, Philippines and Japan.
These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, fires and floods, and geopolitical risks, which at times have disrupted the local economies.
For example, a significant earthquake or tsunami could materially affect operating results.
We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, or for geopolitical or terrorism impacts, and presently have limited redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a disaster.
In the event of such disaster, our business would materially suffer.
Our financial and operating results may vary and fall below analysts’ estimates, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline.
● seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of the semiconductor equipment industry; 

● timing and amount of orders from customers and shipments to customers; 

● customer decisions to cancel orders or push out deliveries; 

● inability to recognize revenue due to accounting requirements; 

● inventory writedowns; 

● unexpected expenses or cost overruns in the introduction and support of products; 

● inability to deliver solutions as expected by our customers; and 

● intangible and deferred tax asset writedowns.
Due to these factors or other unanticipated events, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be reliable indicators of our future performance.
In addition, from time-to-time our quarterly financial results may fall below the expectations of the securities and industry analysts who publish reports on our company or of investors in general.
This could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly.
We have experienced significant volatility in our stock price.
A variety of factors may cause the price of our stock to be volatile.
The stock market in general, and the market for shares of high-technology companies in particular, including ours, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies.
During the three-year period ended March 30, 2019, the price of our common stock has ranged from $27.83 to $10.01.
The price of our stock may be more volatile than the stock of other companies due to, among other factors, the unpredictable, volatile and seasonal nature of the semiconductor industry, our significant customer concentration, intense competition in the test handler industry, our limited backlog and our relatively low daily stock trading volume.
The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, including fluctuations related and unrelated to our performance.
Table of Contents  

Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
None.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures 

Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
