See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
See Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Inc. (“Cables Unlimited”), Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc. (“Comnet”), and Rel-Tech Electronics, Inc. (“Rel-Tech”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of RF Industries, Ltd. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other, which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairments by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
For the three months ended January 31, 2018 and January 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $0 and $62,000 of royalty income, respectively, for RadioMobile, which amount has been included within discontinued operations. 
During March 2016, the Company announced the shutdown of its Bioconnect division, which comprised the entire operations of the Medical Cabling and Interconnect segment. The closure is part of the Company’s ongoing plan to close or dispose of underperforming divisions that are not part of the Company’s core operations. For the three months ended January 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $10,000 of income from sale of equipment for the Bioconnect division, which has been included within discontinued operations. 
Long-term portion of notes receivable of $0 and $21,000 is recorded in other assets at January 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017, respectively. 
Accrued receipts represent purchased inventory for which invoices have not been received. 
Level 3 - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable. 
The contingent consideration liability represents future earn-out liability that we may be required to pay in conjunction with the acquisition of Rel-Tech and Comnet. The Company estimates the fair value of the earn-out liability using a probability-weighted scenario of estimated qualifying earn-out gross profit related to Rel-Tech and EBITDA related to Comnet calculated at net present value (level 3 of the fair value hierarchy). 
The Company’s current stock incentive plan provides for the granting of qualified and nonqualified options to the Company’s officers, directors and employees. The Company satisfies the exercise of options by issuing previously unissued common shares. On December 13, 2017, the Company granted 80,000 incentive stock options to an employee. These options vest 8,000 on the date of grant and 8,000 shares per year thereafter on each of the next nine anniversaries of December 13, 2017 and expire ten years from date of grant. No options were granted to Company employees during the three months ended January 31, 2017. 
Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the Company’s stock price and other factors. The Company used the historical method to calculate the expected life of the 2018 and 2017 option grants. The expected life represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury rate with a maturity date corresponding to the options’ expected life. The dividend yield is based upon the historical dividend yield. 
Non-employee directors receive $50,000 annually, which is paid one-half in cash and one-half through the grant of non-qualified stock options to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock. During the quarter ended January 31, 2018, the Company granted each of its five non-employee directors 37,927 options. The number of stock options granted to each director was determined by dividing $25,000 by the fair value of a stock option grant using the Black-Scholes model ($0.659 per share). These options vest ratably over fiscal year 2018. 
During the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, stock-based compensation expense totaled $75,000 and $51,000, respectively. For the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, stock-based compensation classified in cost of sales amounted to none and $3,000, respectively, and stock-based compensation classified in selling and general expense amounted to $75,000 and $48,000, respectively. 
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents with high-credit quality financial institutions. At January 31, 2018, the Company had cash and cash equivalent balances in excess of federally insured limits in the amount of approximately $5.3 million. 
One customer accounted for approximately 36% of the Company’s net sales for the three-month period ended January 31, 2018. At January 31, 2018, this customer’s accounts receivable balance accounted for approximately 32% of the Company’s total net accounts receivable balance. Two customers accounted for approximately 15% and 10% of the Company’s net sales for the three-month period ended January 31, 2017. At January 31, 2017, these customers’ accounts receivable balances accounted for approximately 15% and 13% of the Company’s total net accounts receivable balance. Although these customers have been on-going major customers of the Company, the written agreements with these customers do not have any minimum purchase obligations and they could stop buying the Company’s products at any time and for any reason. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from these customers or the loss of these customers could significantly reduce the Company’s future revenues and profits. 
The RF Connector and Cable Assembly segment consisted of one division and the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment was composed of three divisions. The four divisions that met the quantitative thresholds for segment reporting are Connector and Cable Assembly, Cables Unlimited, Comnet and Rel-Tech. The specific customers are different for each division; however, there is some overlapping of product sales to them. The methods used to distribute products are similar within each division aggregated. 
As reviewed by the Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Company evaluates the performance of each segment based on income or loss before income taxes. The Company charges depreciation and amortization directly to each division within the segment. Accounts receivable, inventory, property and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets are the only assets identified by segment. Except as discussed above, the accounting policies for segment reporting are the same for the Company as a whole. 
The Company currently leases its corporate headquarters and RF connector and cable assembly manufacturing facilities in San Diego, California. On June 5, 2017, the Company entered into a fifth amendment to its lease for its facility in San Diego, California. As a result, the Company now leases a total of approximately 21,908 square feet of office, warehouse and manufacturing space at its San Diego location. The term of the lease expires on July 31, 2022, and the rental payments under the lease currently are $22,721 per month. The San Diego lease also requires the payment of the Company’s pro rata share of real estate taxes and insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses related to the facilities. 
The Company paid dividends of $0.02 per share during the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 for a total of $176,000 per period. 
On March 8, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.02 per share to be paid on April 15, 2018 to stockholders of record on March 31, 2018. 
Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
Item 1A. Risk Factors 
