fls.txt



item1.txt
•    a $7.6 billion expense related to the application of the one-time transition tax to certain foreign subsidiary earnings that were generated prior to December 31, 2017, which expense was substantially recorded to non-current income taxes payable in our consolidated balance sheet and which corresponds to the amount we currently expect to periodically settle over an eight year period as provided by the Act;  
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017 was nominal.
Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading.
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts.
Financing receivables sold to financial institutions were $360 million and $1.3 billion for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018, respectively, and $296 million and $1.3 billion for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2017, respectively.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we entered into certain non-material agreements to acquire certain companies and expect these proposed acquisitions to close during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
Fiscal 2017 Acquisition of NetSuite Inc., a Related Party  
(NetSuite), a provider of cloud-based enterprise resource planning (ERP) software and related applications and a related party to Oracle.
We acquired NetSuite to, among other things, expand our cloud software as a service offerings with a complementary set of cloud ERP and related cloud software applications for customers.
The total purchase price for NetSuite was approximately $9.1 billion, which consisted of approximately $9.0 billion in cash and $78 million for the fair values of restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed.
In allocating the purchase price based on estimated fair values, we recorded approximately $6.7 billion of goodwill, $3.2 billion of identifiable intangible assets and $763 million of net tangible liabilities.
See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017 for additional information regarding our acquisition of NetSuite.


item2.txt
Our applications, platform and infrastructure offerings are delivered to customers worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models including cloud based, on-premise or hybrid, which enable customer choice and flexibility.
Our comprehensive and fully integrated stack of Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings integrate the software, hardware and services on the customers’ behalf in IT environments that we deploy, support and manage for the customer.
Our integrated Oracle Cloud offerings are designed to be rapidly deployable to enable customers shorter time to innovation; easily maintainable to reduce integration and testing work; connectable among differing deployment models to enable interchangeability and extendibility between cloud and on-premise IT environments; compatible to easily move workloads between on-premise IT environments and the Oracle Cloud; cost-effective by requiring lower upfront customer investment; and to be secure, standards-based and reliable.
In addition to providing a broad spectrum of cloud offerings, we develop and sell our applications, platform and infrastructure products and services to our customers worldwide for use in cloud-based IT environments and other IT environments.
An important element of our corporate strategy is to continue our investments in, and innovation with respect to, our products and services that we offer through our cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services businesses.
After the initial purchase of Oracle products and services, our customers can continue to benefit from our research and development efforts and deep IT expertise by electing to purchase and renew Oracle support offerings for their software and hardware deployments, which may include unspecified product enhancements that we periodically deliver to our products, and by renewing their cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS contracts with us.
We believe that our acquisitions enhance the products and services that we can offer to customers, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to accelerate innovation, grow our revenues and earnings, and increase stockholder value.
In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings.
In recent periods, customer demand has increased at a greater rate for cloud-based IT deployment models relative to on-premise IT deployment models.
To address this demand, we have increased our investments in and focus on the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based applications, platform and infrastructure technologies resulting in higher growth of our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues as customer preferences have pivoted to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and as customers migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing on-premise workloads.
We believe that offering customers broad, comprehensive, flexible and interoperable deployment models for our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies is important to our growth strategy and better address customer needs relative to our competitors, many of whom provide fewer offerings and more restrictive deployment models.
Our cloud and on-premise software line of business, which represented 81% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and on-premise software offerings.
Our Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that we host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
Our IaaS offerings also include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management, maintenance and security services for on-premise, cloud-based, or hybrid IT infrastructure for a stated period.
We offer customers the ability to license our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, for cloud-based and other IT environments.
The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software licenses revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud-based offerings in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the subscription period.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings  


