fls.txt



item1.txt
Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of future payments, because the implicit rate of the lease is generally not known.
ROU assets related to our operating lease liabilities are measured at lease inception based on the initial measurement of the lease liability, plus any prepaid lease payments and less any lease incentives.
Our lease terms that are used in determining our operating lease liabilities at lease inception may include options to extend or terminate the leases when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
At November 30, 2019, ROU assets of $1.9 billion related to our operating leases are included in other non-current assets; and operating lease liabilities of $584 million are included in other current liabilities, and $1.4 billion are included in other non-current liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Cash flow movements related to our lease activities are included in prepaid expenses and other assets and accounts payable and other liabilities as presented in net cash provided by operating activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the six months ended November 30, 2019.
Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred revenues are reported net of related uncollected deferred revenues in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019.
The revenues recognized during the six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, that were included in the opening deferred revenues balance as of May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were approximately $6.2 billion during each period.
Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods and impairment losses recognized on our receivables were immaterial in each of the three and six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Remaining performance obligations, as defined in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019, were $32.8 billion as of November 30, 2019, approximately 60% of which we expect to recognize as revenues over the next twelve months and the remainder thereafter.
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts.
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018 was nominal.
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments, net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, net unrealized gains and losses related to certain equity securities and non-service net periodic pension income (losses).
During the first half of fiscal 2020 and full year of fiscal 2019, we acquired certain companies and purchased certain technology and development assets primarily to expand our products and services offerings.


item2.txt
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 83% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
cloud services revenues, which provide customers access to Oracle Cloud applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are generally billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed at the customer’s option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed over time.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers deploy within cloud‑based, on‑premise and other IT environments.
The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues due to the point in time nature of revenue recognition for license transactions, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the contractual terms.
In recent periods, customer demand for our applications and infrastructure technologies delivered through our Oracle Cloud Services has increased.
To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure licenses and the related license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads.
Our cloud and license business’ revenue growth is affected by many factors, including the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amounts and volumes of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
We believe these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.
The historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery; over those four quarterly periods.
Our hardware business, which represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products, including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support.
The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product and its related software are delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer.


part2.txt
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
On September 11, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $15.0 billion.


