Item 1. Financial Statements 



Mesa Laboratories, Inc. 



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets 







See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 





Mesa Laboratories, Inc. 



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations 









See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 





Mesa Laboratories, Inc. 



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive (Loss) Income 









See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 





Mesa Laboratories, Inc. 



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 









See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 





Mesa Laboratories, Inc. 



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 



Note 1 -Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 



Description of Business 



Mesa Laboratories, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the State of Colorado on  March 26, 1982. The terms “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Mesa” are used in this report to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which our various businesses are conducted. We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements. We prefer markets where we can establish a strong presence and achieve high gross margins. We are organized into four divisions across ten physical locations. Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene and environmental air sampling industries. Our Sterilization and Disinfection Control Division (formerly named the Biological Indicators Division) provides testing services, along with the manufacturing and marketing of both biological and cleaning indicators, and the marketing of chemical indicators used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device and pharmaceutical industries. Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies and other laboratory and industrial environments. Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials and phase-change products to control temperature during transport. 



Basis of Presentation 



The accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of  March 31, 2017, has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements. The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual audited consolidated financial statements and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial statements. In the opinion of management, such unaudited information includes all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring accruals) necessary for a fair presentation of this interim information. Operating results and cash flows for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results that can be expected for the entire year. The information included in this report should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  March 31, 2017. 



The summary of our significant accounting policies is incorporated by reference to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  March 31, 2017. 



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 



In  May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP and is intended to improve and converge with international standards the financial reporting requirements for revenue from contracts with customers. The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount that it expects to be entitled to receive for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 also requires additional disclosures about the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. ASU 2014-09 allows for adoption either on a full retrospective basis to each prior reporting period presented or on a modified retrospective basis with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new guidance recognized at the date of initial application, which will be effective for the Company beginning  April 1, 2018. 



We plan to adopt ASU 2014-09 and its amendments on a modified retrospective basis and are continuing to assess all future impacts of the guidance by reviewing our current contracts with customers to identify potential differences that could result from applying the new guidance. Based on our review, we expect that the adoption of ASU 2014-09 will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. As we continue our assessment, we are also identifying and preparing to implement minor changes to our accounting policies and practices, business processes, systems and controls to support the new revenue recognition and disclosure requirements. Our assessment will be completed during the year ending  March 31, 2018. 





In  January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other, which eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill to measure a goodwill impairment charge. ASU 2017-04 is required to be applied prospectively and we elected to early adopt ASU 2017-04 effective  April 1, 2017.   



Note 2 – Acquisitions 



For the nine months ended  December 31, 2017, our acquisitions of businesses totaled $15,433,000, of which none were material in nature (see Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations).  



Note 3 – Impairment Loss on Goodwill 



During the nine months ended  December 31, 2017, revenues in our Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment decreased significantly as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a significant decrease in revenues from our largest customer and the loss of the business of one of our larger customers. During the three months ended  December 31, 2017 we completed a detailed review of the cold chain packaging business and concluded that long and difficult sales-cycles associated with this product set, when coupled with higher than previously contemplated costs for operating and expanding the necessary infrastructure to support revenues growth have resulted in a forecast of lower than expected revenues, gross margin percentages and overall profitability as compared to our original model for this business. Based on these facts, we concluded that we had a triggering event requiring assessment of impairment for certain of our long-lived assets associated with the Cold Chain Packaging reporting segment. As a result, we reviewed the long-lived assets associated with this reporting segment and recorded a $13,819,000 impairment charge related to goodwill, which is included in impairment loss on goodwill on the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended  December 31, 2017. The impairment loss was measured using a market approach utilizing an EBITA multiple model. The remaining goodwill and intangible assets associated with this segment are $1,434,000 and $4,340,000, respectively as of  December 31, 2017.   



Note 4 - Inventories 







Note 5 – Facility Relocation 







●   



Moving costs of $370,000    









In  July 2017, we completed the move from the Omaha facility and subsequently sold that building for $1,116,000 (net of commission costs) which resulted in a gain of $116,000 which is included in other expense, net in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended  December 31, 2017. 



In  July 2017, we put our old Bozeman facility up for sale. The assets associated with this facility are presented on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets as of  December 31, 2017 as assets held for sale.  



Note 6 - Long-Term Debt 







On  March 1, 2017, we entered into a five-year agreement (the “Credit Facility”) for an $80,000,000 revolving line of credit (“Line of Credit”), a $20,000,000 term loan (“Term Loan”) and up to $2,500,000 of letters of credit with a banking syndicate of four banks. In addition, the Credit Facility provides a post-closing accordion feature which allows for the Company to request to increase the Line of Credit or Term Loan up to an additional $100,000,000. Funds from the Credit Facility  may be used to pay down the previous credit facility, finance working capital needs and for general corporate purposes in the ordinary course of business (including, without limitation, permitted acquisitions). 





The Term Loan requires 20 quarterly principal payments (the first due date was  March 31, 2017) in the amount of $250,000 (increasing by $125,000 each year up to $750,000 in the fifth year). The remaining balance of principal and accrued interest are due on  March 1, 2022. 



The Credit Facility is secured by all of our assets and requires us to maintain a ratio of funded debt to our trailing four quarters of EBIDTA (the “Leverage Ratio”), as defined in the agreement, of less than 3.0 to 1.0, provided that, we  may once during the term of the Credit Facility, in connection with a Permitted Acquisition for which the aggregate consideration paid or to be paid in respect thereof equals or exceeds $20,000,000, elect to increase the maximum Leverage Ratio permitted hereunder to (i) 3.50 to 1.00 for a period of four consecutive fiscal quarters commencing with the fiscal quarter in which such Permitted Acquisition occurs (the “Initial Holiday Period”) and (ii) 3.25 to 1.00 for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters immediately following the Initial Holiday Period. The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of less than 1.25 to 1.0. We were compliant with the required covenants at  December 31, 2017. 



We incurred origination and debt issuance costs of $460,000 which are treated as a debt discount and are netted against amounts outstanding on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. 







In  January 2018, we made a $3,500,000 payment under our Line of Credit.  





Note 7 - Stock-Based Compensation 







Stock-based compensation expense is included in cost of revenues, selling, and general and administrative expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. 



The fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model (“Black-Scholes”). We use historical data to estimate the expected price volatility, the expected stock option life and expected forfeiture rate. The risk-free interest rate is based on the United States Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for the estimated life of the stock option. The dividend yield is calculated based upon the dividend payments made during the prior four quarters as a percent of the average stock price for that period.  







The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was $4,243,000 and $4,701,000 for the nine months ended  December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 







As of  December 31, 2017, we have issued 8,400 shares of restricted stock, with vesting periods ranging from five to seven years. No shares have vested as of  December 31, 2017. 





As of  December 31, 2017, there was $7,513,000 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock options and shares of restricted stock. As of  December 31, 2017, we have 749,608 shares available for future grants.  



Note 8 - Net (Loss) Income Per Share 



Basic net (loss) income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted net (loss) income per share is computed similarly to basic net (loss) income per share, except that it includes the potential dilution that could occur if dilutive securities were exercised. 







For both the three and nine months ended  December 31, 2017, 501,000 outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted net (loss) income per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.  



For the three and nine months ended  December 31, 2016, 3,000 and 110,000 outstanding stock options, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted net (loss) income per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.   



Note 9- Commitments and Contingencies 



Under the terms of the PCD Agreement, we were required to pay contingent consideration if the cumulative revenues for our process challenge device business for the three years subsequent to the acquisition met certain levels. The potential consideration payable ranged from $0 to $1,500,000 and was based upon a sliding scale of three-year cumulative revenues between $9,900,000 and $12,600,000, with payments made annually. Based upon both historical and projected growth rates, we initially recorded $300,000 of contingent consideration payable which represented our best estimate of the amount that would ultimately be paid. We paid $150,000 of the contingent consideration during the year ended  March 31, 2016 (based upon the then current run rate projected over the entire three-year contingent consideration period).  



Since the initial payment, the revenues for these products significantly increased and as a result, during the year ended  March 31, 2017 we recorded an additional $450,000 accrual (which was paid in our third quarter ending  December 31, 2016). During the three months ended  June 30, 2017 revenues continued to increase and after revising our forecast for the process challenge device (“PCD”) product revenues through the end of the earn-out period, we recorded an additional $300,000 accrual, which is included in other income, net in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended  December 31, 2017. We paid the remaining contingent consideration due of $450,000 in  November 2017.   





Note 10 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income   (Loss) 













Note 11 - Segment Information 

















Reconciling items include selling, general and administrative, research and development, impairment and other expenses    





All long-lived assets are located in the United States except for $5,823,000, $7,484,000 and $16,807,000 which are associated with our French, Canadian and German subsidiaries, respectively.  









No foreign country exceeds 10 percent of total revenues.   



Note 12 – Income Taxes 



For interim income tax reporting, we estimate our annual effective tax rate and apply this effective tax rate to our year to date pre-tax (loss) income. Each quarter, the estimate of the annual effective tax rate is updated, and if the estimated effective tax rate changes, a cumulative adjustment is made. Additionally, the tax effects of significant unusual or infrequently occurring items are recognized as discrete items in the interim period in which the events occur. The impact of changes in tax laws or rates on deferred tax amounts, impairments of non-deductible goodwill, excess benefits from stock-based compensation, and changes in tax reserves resulting from the finalization of tax audits or reviews are examples of significant unusual or infrequently occurring items that are recognized as discrete items in the interim period in which the event occurs. There is a potential for volatility of the effective tax rate due to several factors, including changes in the mix of the pre-tax income and the jurisdictions to which it relates, changes in tax laws and foreign tax holidays, settlement with taxing authorities, and foreign currency fluctuations. 



On  December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") was enacted in the U.S., making significant changes to U.S. tax law. The TCJA reduces the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 34 percent to 21 percent, requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain un-remitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, generally eliminates U.S. federal income tax on dividends from foreign subsidiaries, creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings, repeals the Section 199 deduction, and imposes limitations on executive compensation under Section 162(m). During the quarter ended  December 31, 2017, we revised our estimated annual effective tax rate to reflect the change in the federal statutory rate. The rate change results in the Company using a blended statutory rate for the annual period of 30.9 percent. 



Shortly thereafter, the SEC staff issued SAB 118, which provides guidance on accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA for which the accounting under ASC 740 is incomplete. To the extent that a company's accounting for certain income tax effects of the TCJA is incomplete but it is able to determine a reasonable estimate, it must record a provisional estimate in the financial statements. If a company cannot determine a provisional estimate to be included in the financial statements, it should continue to apply ASC 740 on the basis of the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately before enactment of the TCJA. 



Accordingly, as of  December 31, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA. However, we made a reasonable estimate of the one-time transition tax and recognized a provisional tax liability of $285,000. We also re-measured the applicable deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse. However, we are still analyzing certain aspects of the TCJA and refining our calculations, which could potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts. The provisional amount recorded related to the re-measurement of our deferred tax balance was a benefit of $722,000. Overall, the TCJA resulted in a net tax benefit of $437,000. Such amount was recorded as a discrete tax benefit and is included as a component of income tax expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ending  December 31, 2017. 



Our effective income tax rate was (5.3) percent and 16.2 percent for the three months ended  December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and (18.0) percent and 18.6 percent for the nine months ended  December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended  December 31, 2017 differed from the statutory federal rate of 30.9 percent primarily due to the impact of the impairment of non-deductible goodwill, the TCJA, share-based payment awards for employees (which was significant for the nine months ended  December 31, 2017), state income taxes, domestic manufacturing deductions and foreign rate differential.  



Since we are subject to audit by various taxing authorities, it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change during the next 12 months. However, we do not expect the change, if any, to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations within the next 12 months.  



Note 13 - Subsequent Event 



In  January 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, payable on  March 15, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on  February 28, 2018.  





Item 1. Legal Proceedings 



See Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for information regarding any legal proceedings in which we may be involved. 



Item 1A. Risk factors 





Changes in applicable tax regulations could negatively affect our financial results. 



We are subject to taxation in the United States as well as a number of foreign jurisdictions. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”). The changes included in the TCJA are both broad and complex. The final transitional impacts of the TCJA may differ from the estimates provided elsewhere in this report, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the TCJA, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the TCJA, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the TCJA, or any updates or changes to estimates the company has utilized to calculate the transitional impacts, including impacts related to changes to current year earnings estimates and foreign exchange rates of foreign subsidiaries. 





As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted. Given the unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to assess whether the overall effect of such potential tax changes would be cumulatively positive or negative for our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results 



A significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems or violation of data privacy laws could adversely affect our business, reputation and consolidated financial statements. 



We rely on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers and other business partners), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. These systems may be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events, and in any such circumstances our system redundancy and other disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate. In addition, security breaches of our systems (or the systems of our customers, suppliers or other business partners) could result in the misappropriation, destruction or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers. Like most multinational corporations, our information technology systems have been subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, unauthorized access and other cyber-attacks and we expect the sophistication and frequency of such attacks to continue to increase. Any of the attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above could interrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers’ intellectual property and trade secrets, damage customer and business partner relationships and our reputation or result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased costs for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial statements. 



While we select our third-party vendors carefully (including the provider of our ERP system), we don’t control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from breakdowns or other disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes or cyber-attacks and security breaches at a vendor could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. 



