fls.txt
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.


item1.txt
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
During the three months and six months ended June 30, 2017 net loss incurred on valuation of inventory at lower of cost or net realizable value and write-off of obsolete inventory was $55 and $21, respectively.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
In connection with the repurchase extension authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors.
Current finished goods did not include distributor channel inventories in the amounts of approximately $1,555 as of December 31, 2017.
There have been no material developments in the legal proceedings described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
The ASU will require organizations that lease assets (lessees) to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by all leases with terms of more than 12 months.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Basic earnings (loss) per common share is the amount of net earnings (loss) for the period available to each weighted-average share of common stock outstanding during the reporting period.
The Company has classified its marketable securities as available-for-sale securities.
In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company’s standard terms and conditions at the time of acceptance of purchase orders apply.


item2.txt
At June 30, 2018, we had inventory totaling $22.7 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $8.4 million.
In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth.
Our revenue decreased by $3.3 million, or 32%, to $7.0 million in 2018-Q2 compared to $10.3 million in 2017-Q2.
While focusing on strategic innovation that we believe will strengthen our competitive position, and accelerated product development, we have also planned and initiated a company-wide cost cutting programs.
When we capitalize patent defense costs we amortize the costs over the remaining estimated useful life of the patent, which is 15 to 17 years.
Except with respect to our revenue recognition practices included in Note 1.
Overall revenue declined in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the three months and six months ended June 30, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional audio conferencing products.
As of June 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $4.1 compared to $5.6 million as of December 31, 2017.
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.


item4.txt
Item 6.
The material weakness will be fully remediated when, in the opinion of management, the control processes have been operating for a sufficient period of time to provide reasonable assurance as to their effectiveness.


part2.txt
Item 6.


