fls.txt
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


item1.txt
There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
As of March 31, 2019, the 2007 Plan had 924,571 authorized unissued options.
This facility support our administrative, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities.
ClearOne, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (collectively, “ClearOne” or the “Company”), is a global market leader enabling conferencing, collaboration, and AV streaming solutions for voice and visual communications.
Rent expense was $171 and $246, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Rent expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease taking into account future rent escalation and holiday periods.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
There have been no material developments during the three months ended March 31, 2019 in the legal proceedings described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.


item2.txt
We also continue our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path.
Overall revenue declined in the first quarter of 2019 when compared to the first quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
Cost of goods sold (“COGS”) includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the manufacture of our products (including material and direct labor), our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses.
We have already spent about $9.7 million from 2016 through March 31, 2019 towards this litigation and may be required to spend more to continue our legal defense.
The increase was primarily due to an increase in net purchases of marketable securities of approximately $6.8 million.
We derive a major portion of our revenue (approximately 47% for the year ended December 31, 2018) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future.
The highest decline was seen in audio conferencing category with 11% decline followed by microphones with 9% decline.
Our working capital was $22.9 million and $28.3 million as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Our competitors vary within each product category.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future.
Capitalization of patent defense costs.
We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development.
We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds.
Our competitors vary within each product category.


item4.txt
Item 5.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
Item 3.


