fls.txt
Future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which we cannot predict with accuracy and some of which we might not anticipate, including, without limitation, product recalls and product liability claims; infringement of our technology or assertion that our technology infringes the rights of other parties; termination of supplier relationships, or failure of suppliers to perform; inability to successfully manage growth; delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or the failure to maintain such approvals; concentration of our revenue among a few customers, products or procedures; development of new products and technology that could render our products obsolete; market acceptance of new products; introduction of products in a timely fashion; price and product competition, availability of labor and materials, cost increases, and fluctuations in and obsolescence of inventory; volatility of the market price of our common stock; foreign currency fluctuations; changes in key personnel; work stoppage or transportation risks; integration of business acquisitions; and other factors referred to in our reports filed with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.


item1.txt
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
During the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2017 there was no net loss incurred on valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value and write-off of obsolete inventory.
Options may be granted to employees, officers, non-employee directors and other service providers and may be granted upon such terms as the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors determines in their sole discretion.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The Company recorded discrete tax expense of $6.5M in 2018-Q3, due primarily to the recording of a full valuation allowance on the Company’s net deferred tax assets.
The Company recognizes revenue from sales agreements upon transferring control of a product to the customer.
Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
Since each delivery constitutes a performance obligation, the Company allocates the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation based on the stand-alone selling price of the products.
As scheduled delivery dates are within one year, revenue allocated to future shipments of partially completed contracts are not disclosed.
Gains and losses on marketable security transactions are reported on the specific-identification method.
The Company’s share-based incentive plans offering stock options are offered under the Company’s 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”), which was restated and approved by the shareholders on December 12, 2015.
Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.


item2.txt
Our strength in the professional audio visual space is largely due to our industry leading conferencing technologies and the full suite of professional microphone products, especially Beamforming Microphone Arrays.
We hold long-term inventory and if we are unable to sell our long-term inventory, our profitability might be affected by inventory write-offs and price mark-downs.
We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing the share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures.
Other income (expense), net, includes interest income, interest expense, and foreign currency changes.
“Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, there have been no changes to the critical accounting policies as explained in our 2017 Form 10-K.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 45% during the three months ended September 30, 2018 from 62% for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Our long-term inventory includes approximately $2.7 million of wireless microphones related finished goods and assemblies, $2.4 million of Converge Pro 2 products and about $1.1 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products.
The revenue declines for Asia Pacific including Middle East, Europe and Africa, and Americas were 53%, 13% and 30%, respectively.
Our revenues in the near term may also be adversely affected by the resignation of a large US distributor in June 2018.


item4.txt
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of September 30, 2018 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.


part2.txt
Item 4.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


