fls.txt
In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology.


item1.txt
Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
On July 18, 2019, Shure, Inc. filed a lawsuit against the Company in the U.S. Court for the District of Delaware.
The facility supports our principal administrative, sales, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries.
We occupy a 3,068 square-foot facility in Zaragoza, Spain under the terms of an operating lease expiring in March 2020.
ClearOne, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (collectively, “ClearOne” or the “Company”), is a global market leader enabling conferencing, collaboration, and AV streaming solutions for voice and visual communications.
Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned.
Long-term inventory represents inventory held in excess of our current (next 12 months) requirements based on our recent sales and forecasted level of sales.
ClearOne, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (collectively, “ClearOne” or the “Company”), is a global market leader enabling conferencing, collaboration, and AV streaming solutions for voice and visual communications.


item2.txt
Our competitors vary within each product category.
The highest decline was seen in audio conferencing category with 23% decline followed by microphones with 5% decline.
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 52% in 2018-Q2 to 45% in 2019-Q2.
Our gross profit for 2019-Q2 was approximately $2.9 million or 46% compared to approximately $3.3 million, or 47%, for 2018-Q2.
In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth.
At June 30, 2019, we had open purchase orders of approximately $1.5 million, primarily related to inventory purchases.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products.
We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware-based video conferencing systems to software-based video conferencing applications.
We hold long-term inventory and if we are unable to sell our long-term inventory, our profitability might be affected by inventory write-offs and price mark-downs.
Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future.
The industry is also characterized by venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies willing to fund cumulative cash losses in order to gain market share and achieve certain non-financial goals.
The decline in microphones category was due to a decline in beamforming microphones and ceiling microphones offset by increase in revenue from wireless mics.


item4.txt
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third-party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Item 5.
Item 5.


