fls.txt
Additional factors that may have a direct bearing on our operating results are discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.


item1.txt
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
During the three months ended March 31, 2017 benefit from the reduction of reserves for valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value was $34.
The forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 27.0% excludes jurisdictions for which no benefit from forecasted current year losses is anticipated.
Upon expiry of this repurchase program in March 2018, the program was not renewed again.
1. Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies
The transactions effectuated to date occurred in open market purchases.
Upon expiry of this repurchase program in March 2018, the program was not renewed again.
Gains and losses on marketable security transactions are reported on the specific-identification method.
The ASU will require organizations that lease assets (lessees) to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by all leases with terms of more than 12 months.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice.
The standard will apply to both types of leases-capital (or finance) leases and operating leases.


item2.txt
The share of professional audio communications products (which includes microphone products but not premium products) in our product mix declined from 74% in 2017-Q1 to 68% in 2018-Q1.
In connection with the repurchase extension authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors.
In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels.
The patent infringement has also affected revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones and ceiling microphones.
Our working capital was $24.9 million and $23.3 million as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, a decrease of cash used of approximately $1.1 million from $1.4 million of cash used in operating activities in the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with our Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The patent infringement has also affected revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones and ceiling microphones.
This compares to total inventories of $24.7 million and non-current inventory of $8.7 million as of December 31, 2017.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance based media collaboration product and our high-end audio conferencing technology to provide growth in revenue in the near future.


item4.txt
The remediation and ultimate resolution of the material weakness will be reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 2.
Item 6.


