fls.txt
In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology.


item1.txt
Basic earnings (loss) per common share is the amount of net earnings (loss) for the period available to each weighted-average share of common stock outstanding during the reporting period.
On February 15, 2019, the Company filed a petition for inter partes review of Shure’s U.S. Patent No.
9,813,806 (the “’806 Patent”).
Options may be granted to employees, officers, non-employee directors and other service providers and may be granted upon such terms as the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors determines in their sole discretion.
Our working capital was $22,470 as of September 30, 2019.
Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
We currently occupy a 21,443 square-foot facility in Salt Lake City, Utah under the terms of an operating lease expiring in March 2024, with an option to extend for additional five years.
Long-term inventory represents inventory held in excess of our current (next 12 months) requirements based on our recent sales and forecasted level of sales.
The fiscal year for ClearOne is the twelve months ending on December 31.
On July 18, 2019, Shure, Inc. filed a lawsuit against the Company in the U.S. Court for the District of Delaware.


item2.txt
They can connect with colleagues and contacts, via audio and video, with the most intuitive collaboration tools.
We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans.
We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans.
The industry is also characterized by venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies willing to fund cumulative cash losses in order to gain market share and achieve certain non-financial goals.
When we capitalize patent defense costs we amortize the costs over the remaining estimated useful life of the patent, which is 15 to 17 years.
Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products.
Revenue from video products grew by a modest 3% mainly due to growth in revenue from sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras and cloud-based videoconferencing services.
The decline in the microphones category was due to a decline in beamforming microphones and ceiling microphones offset by an increase in revenue from wireless mics.
Our long-term inventory includes approximately $1.6 million of wireless microphone-related finished goods and assemblies, $1.8 million of Converge Pro and Beamforming microphone array products, $0.8 million of network media streaming products and about $1.9 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
Our revenue decreased to $18.7 million in 2019 YTD compared to $20.9 million in 2018 YTD.
We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development.
The highest decline was seen in the video category with a 21.5% decline followed by audio conferencing with a 15% decline.
Other income (expense), net, includes interest income, interest expense, and foreign currency changes.


item4.txt
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third-party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Shure has opposed the petition, and a decision by the Patent Trial and Appeal Board whether to institute inter partes review is expected by August 20, 2019.
On August 5, 2019, the Honorable Edmond E. Chang of the Northern District of Illinois issued a preliminary injunction order in the ongoing litigation in that district between the Company and Shure Incorporated, Case No.


