fls.txt
These forward-looking statements represent the Company's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events.


item1.txt



item2.txt
Our business is not seasonal.
These risks include, without limitation, requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business.
Future procurement needs supporting the military and the rail industry continues to drive competition.
This trend will continue through fiscal year 2019.
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff.
Successful conversion of engineering program backlog into sales is largely dependent on the execution and completion of our engineering design efforts.
Management expects revenues in fiscal year 2019 to be higher than revenues during fiscal year 2018 but expects the gross profit margin to be lower in fiscal year 2019 than the gross profit margin during fiscal year 2018.
The outstanding quotations encompass various new and previously manufactured power supplies, transformers, and subassemblies.
This high concentration level with these customers presents significant risk.
We assess each contract at its inception to determine whether it should be combined with other contracts.
When making this determination, we consider factors such as whether two or more contracts were negotiated and executed at or near the same time, or were negotiated with an overall profit objective.
We evaluate the products or services promised in each contract at inception to determine whether the contract should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligation.
Significant judgment is required in determining performance obligations.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on the consideration we expect to receive for the products or services being provided under the contract.
Transaction prices on our contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) are typically based on estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
Work in process represents spare units and parts and other inventory items acquired or produced to service units previously sold or to meet anticipated future orders.
The provision for losses on contracts is included in other accrued expenses on the Company’s balance sheet.
Certain contracts are expected to extend beyond twelve months.
The estimation of total cost at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
The increase in net sales is primarily due to an increase in build to print sales offset, in part, by a decrease in power supply shipments.
This increase in spending reduced the gross profit percentage in the current quarter by 8.6%.
The increase for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017 relates primarily to the increase in employee compensation costs associated with added program management personnel supporting the Company’s sales backlog.
Other income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $76,070 and $41,396, respectively.
The increase for the three months is primarily due to an increase in interest income resulting from the gradual increase in current yield percentages earned on investment securities.


item3.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities


item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


part2.txt
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
32.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


