Portions of the manufacturing and testing process are subcontracted to vendors from time to time.
Our business is not seasonal.
However, the concentration of our business in the rail industry, and in equipment for military applications and industrial applications, and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks.
These risks include, without limitation, requirements for power supplies in the rail industry, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience, and the general strength of the industry sectors in which our customers transact business.
In order to maintain a balanced business, we are continuing to place an emphasis on securing “build to print” opportunities, which will allow production work to go directly to the manufacturing floor, limiting the impact on our engineering staff.
Engineering programs in both the funded and unfunded portions of the current backlog aggregate $6.7 million.
Management expects revenues in fiscal year 2019 to be higher than revenues during fiscal year 2018 but expects the gross profit margin to be lower in fiscal year 2019 than the gross profit margin during fiscal year 2018.
New orders received in the first six months of fiscal year 2019 were approximately $13.4 million as compared to $14.3 million of new orders received in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
The outstanding quotations encompass various new and previously manufactured power supplies, transformers, and subassemblies.
This high concentration level with these customers presents significant risk.
We assess each contract at its inception to determine whether it should be combined with other contracts.
When making this determination, we consider factors such as whether two or more contracts were negotiated and executed at or near the same time, or were negotiated with an overall profit objective.
We evaluate the products or services promised in each contract at inception to determine whether the contract should be accounted for as having one or more performance obligation.
Significant judgment is required in determining performance obligations.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on the consideration we expect to receive for the products or services being provided under the contract.
The transaction price for each performance obligation is based on the estimated standalone selling price of the product or service underlying each performance obligation.Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information 31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.2Certification of the Principal Financial Officer and Executive Vice President pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.