fls.txt



item1.txt
The correction of the PBO was recorded as an out-of-period adjustment in the third quarter 2018 with the offset to the balance sheet recorded as a credit to Changes in defined benefit plans, net in Other comprehensive income for the period.
We assessed the impact of this error and concluded that it was not material to the financial statements previously issued for any interim or annual period and the correction of the error in the third quarter 2018 is not expected to be material to the annual financial statements for 2018.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five-step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize revenue upon invoicing the customer for the large majority of our revenue.
These revenues relate to certain analyst services performed in connection with the installation of equipment that are being considered part of the equipment sale performance obligation in 2018.
As a result of this change, $8 and $25 of revenue was recorded, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods.
However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to Retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts.
Substantially all of this adjustment is related to the deferral of sales commissions paid to sales people and agents in connection with the placement of equipment with post sale service arrangements.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and is recognized when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer or in the period the customer benefits from the service.
As a result of the application of this practical expedient for the substantial portion of our revenue, the disclosure of the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for our services is not required.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligations in our Document management services arrangements as well the pattern of delivery for those services.
We believe five years is representative of the period during which the equipment is expected to be economically usable, with normal service, for the purpose for which it is intended.


item2.txt
We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate.
Refer to Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this terminated transaction and related matters.
In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified.
These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above.
These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments.
In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC.
Total revenue of $2.35 billion for third quarter 2018 declined 5.8% from third quarter 2017 and included a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.
Post sale revenue, which primarily reflects contracted services, equipment maintenance, supplies and financing, was $1.84 billion and represented 78% of total revenue.
Post sale revenue of $5.73 billion, which represented 78% of total revenue, declined 3.2% and included a 1.6-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the respective prior year periods was primarily due to lower revenues and higher Income tax expense, which included an additional charge of $95 million in third quarter 2018 related to the impact of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act").
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was also partially offset by lower Transaction and related costs, net, primarily due to recoveries during third quarter 2018.
The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by Transaction and related costs, net and lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox in the first quarter of 2018.


item4.txt
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(B) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2018.
3.2 By-Laws of the Registrant as amended through May 14, 2018.


part2.txt
This program replaces the $245 million of authority remaining under Registrant’s previously authorized share repurchase program.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(B) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2018.


