For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 9, 2018 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies the performance obligations under the contract and control of the product is transferred to the customer, primarily based on shipping terms.
The Company estimates product returns based on historical return rates.
An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
During the three month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2018, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.2 million and $.4 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
During the three month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in a less than $.1 million benefit and a less than $.1 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes.
Noncurrent inventory is included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”).
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented.
For both the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2018, no stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as there was no anti-dilutive effect.Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires.
We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures.
We evaluate segment performance and allocate resources based on several factors primarily based on sales and net income.
The operating results for the three months ended June 30, 2018 are compared to the same period in 2017.
Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018 of $108.9 million increased $11.4 million, or 11.7%, compared to 2017.
Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2018 of $35.2 million increased $5.5 million, or 18.6%, compared to 2017.
Gross profit increased $5.8 million, or 19.4%, compared to 2017, excluding the unfavorable impact from currency translation.