 ITEM 2. 



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.   



This Quarterly Report on Form 



10-Q contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). When used herein, the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “estimates,” “would,” “will,” “intends” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect management’s current opinions and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially from those stated or implied. While we may elect to update forward looking statements in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates or expectations change. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 



10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and in the section entitled “Risk Factors” as referenced in Part II, Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 





Overview  



We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, monitor, deliver, analyze, power and control critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity for our customers. Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, flow measurement and control, gas and vapor delivery, gas composition analysis, residual gas analysis, leak detection, control technology, ozone generation and delivery, power, reactive gas generation, vacuum technology, lasers, photonics, 



sub-micron positioning, vibration control, optics and laser-based manufacturing solutions. We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, installation services and training. Our primary served markets include semiconductor, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, research and defense. 



Acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc.  



On February 1, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 29, 2018 (the “ESI Merger”). At the effective time of the ESI Merger and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, each share of ESI’s common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the ESI Merger was converted into the right to receive $30.00 in cash, without interest and subject to deduction of any required withholding tax. We paid the former ESI stockholders aggregate consideration of approximately $1.033 billion, excluding related transaction fees and expenses, and 



non-cash consideration related to the exchange of share-based awards of approximately $31 million for a total purchase consideration of approximately $1.063 billion. We funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of our available cash on hand and the proceeds from our senior secured term loan facility as described below. 



Segments and Markets  









sub-micron positioning, vibration control, and optics. 



We have a diverse base of customers. Approximately 54% and 42% of our net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were from advanced manufacturing applications. These include, but are not limited to, industrial technologies, life and health sciences, and research and defense.  



Approximately 46% and 58% of our net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were from sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers.  







Table of Contents 









The semiconductor capital equipment industry has been experiencing a moderation in capital spending in the near term and we have seen a similar effect on our semiconductor revenue in the first and second quarters and expect that to continue into the third quarter. The semiconductor capital equipment industry is subject to rapid demand shifts, which are difficult to predict, and we cannot be certain as to the timing or extent of future demand or any future weakness in the semiconductor capital equipment industry.  



A significant portion of our net revenues is from sales to customers in international markets. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, international net revenues accounted for approximately 53% and 50% of our total net revenues. A significant portion of our international net revenues was from China, Germany, South Korea, Japan and Israel. We expect that international net revenues will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total net revenues. Long-lived assets located in the United States were $175.9 million and $146.7 million, as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term 



tax-related accounts. Long-lived assets located outside of the United States were $90.6 million and $77.4 million, as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, excluding goodwill and intangibles, and long-term 



tax-related accounts. 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  



The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies since December 31, 2018, other than the adoption of ASC 842 as outlined below.  



Leases  



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”), Leases, (“ASU 



2016-02”), to enhance the transparency and comparability of financial reporting related to leasing arrangements. We adopted ASU 



2016-02 on January 1, 2019, or the effective date, and used the effective date as our date of initial application. 



At the inception of an arrangement, we determine whether the arrangement is or contains a lease based on the facts and circumstances present. Most leases with a term greater than one year are recognized on the balance sheet as 



right-of-use assets, short-term lease liabilities and long-term lease liabilities. We have elected not to recognize on the balance sheet leases with terms of one year or less. Operating lease liabilities and their corresponding 



right-of-use assets are recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the expected remaining fixed lease term. Certain adjustments to the 



right-of-use asset may be required for items such as incentives received. In calculating the present value of future lease payments, we utilize our incremental borrowing rates, which are the rates incurred to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment. We have elected to utilize a single blended interest rate based on currencies, geographies and lease terms that comprise the lease portfolio. 



Although separation of lease and 



non-lease components is required, certain practical expedients are available. Entities may elect the practical expedient to not separate lease and 



non-lease components. We have elected to account for the lease and 



non-lease  components of each of our operating leases as a single lease component and allocate all of the contract consideration to the lease component only. The lease component results in an operating 



right-of-use asset being recorded on the balance sheet and amortized on a straight-line basis as lease expense. 



Many of our leases contain options to renew and extend lease terms, and options to terminate leases early. We do not recognize the 



right-of-use asset or lease liability for renewal or termination periods unless we are reasonably certain to exercise the option at lease inception. 



For further information about our critical accounting policies, including our revenue recognition policy, please see the discussion of critical accounting policies in our Annual Report on Form 



10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” 





Table of Contents 



Results of Operations  











Table of Contents 





Total international net revenues, including product and service, were $256.6 million and $495.8 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to $291.3 million and $568.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. The decreases of $34.7 million and $73.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were primarily due to decreases in net revenues in Japan and South Korea.  











Gross profit as a percentage of net product revenues decreased by 4.1 and 4.6 percentage points for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year, primarily due lower revenue volumes and lower factory utilization, partially offset by favorable product mix.  



Gross profit as a percentage of net service revenues decreased by 1.0 percentage point for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher material costs and higher excess and obsolete inventory charges, offset by favorable absorption. Gross profit as a percentage of net service revenues decreased by 1.3 percentage points for the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to unfavorable mix and higher material costs, offset by favorable absorption.  





Table of Contents 











step-up adjustment to fair value from purchase accounting of $2.5 million and $5.1 million, respectively. Excluding these adjustments, the gross margins would have been 49.0% and 43.6%, respectively, for these periods. 





Research and development expenses increased $5.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to the ESI Merger, which included $5.2 million of compensation-related expenses, $0.8 million of depreciation expense and $0.6 million of project materials. These increases were offset by a decrease of $1.5 million of compensation-related expenses relating to the legacy MKS business.  



Research and development expenses increased $9.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to the ESI Merger, which included $7.7 million of compensation-related expenses, $1.3 million of depreciation expense, $1.2 million of project materials and $0.6 million of occupancy costs. These increases were offset by a decrease of $2.4 million of compensation-related expenses related to the legacy MKS business.  



Our research and development efforts are primarily focused on developing and improving our instruments, components, subsystems and process control solutions to improve process performance and productivity.  



We have thousands of products, and our research and development efforts primarily consist of a large number of projects related to these products, none of which is individually material to us. Current projects typically have durations of 3 to 30 months depending upon whether the product is an enhancement of existing technology or a new product. Our current initiatives include projects to enhance the performance characteristics of older products, to develop new products and to integrate various technologies into subsystems. These projects support in large part the transition in the semiconductor industry to smaller integrated circuit geometries and in the flat panel display and solar markets to larger substrate sizes, which require more advanced process control technology. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel engaged in research and development, fees paid to consultants, material costs for prototypes and other expenses related to the design, development, testing and enhancement of our products.  



We believe that the continued investment in research and development and ongoing development of new products are essential to the expansion of our markets. We expect to continue to make significant investment in research and development activities. We are subject to risks from products not being developed in a timely manner, as well as from rapidly changing customer requirements and competitive threats from other companies and technologies. Our success primarily depends on our products being designed into new generations of equipment for the semiconductor industry and advanced technology markets. We develop products that are technologically advanced so that they are positioned to be chosen for use in each successive generation of semiconductor capital equipment. If our products are not chosen to be designed into our customers’ products, our net revenues may be reduced during the lifespan of those products.  





Table of Contents 





Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $7.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year. This increase was primarily attributed to the ESI Merger, which included $7.4 million of compensation-related expense, $1.1 million of depreciation expense, $1.0 million of consulting and professional fees and $0.6 million of travel and entertainment expense. The increase was also attributed to an increase of $0.6 million of commissions expense and an increase of $0.5 million of information technology related expenses, offset by a decrease of $5.3 million of compensation-related expense related to the legacy MKS business.  



Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $6.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year. This increase was primarily attributed to the ESI Merger, which included $11.5 million of compensation-related expense, $2.1 million of depreciation expense, $1.5 million of consulting and professional fees, $1.0 million of travel and entertainment expense and $0.6 million of commission expense. The increase was also attributed to an increase of $0.7 million of information technology related expenses, offset by a decrease of $11.2 million of compensation-related expense related to the legacy MKS business.  





We recorded fees and expenses related to Amendment No. 5 to our senior secured term loan facility, as described below, which related to the ESI Merger, during the six months ended June 30, 2019. We recorded fees and expenses during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 related to the fourth repricing of our Term Loan Credit Agreement.  





We recorded acquisition and integration costs related to the ESI Merger, which closed on February 1, 2019, during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019. These costs consisted primarily of compensation costs for certain executives from ESI who had change in control provisions in their respective ESI employment agreements that were accounted for as dual-trigger arrangements and other stock vesting accelerations, as well as consulting and professional fees associated with the ESI Merger.  



During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, we reversed a portion of acquisition and integration costs recognized during previous periods related to the acquisition of Newport Corporation in April 2016 (the “Newport Merger”), related to severance agreement provisions that were not met.  







Table of Contents 



We recorded restructuring costs of $1.2 million and $1.5 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, which consisted primarily of severance costs related to an organization-wide reduction in workforce, the consolidation of service functions in Asia and the movement of certain products to low cost regions. We recorded restructuring costs of $0.8 million and $2.0 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, which consisted primarily of severance costs related to streamlining and consolidating certain administrative functions.  



We recorded a charge of $1.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019 related to a contractual obligation we acquired as part of the Newport Merger.  



We recorded $1.0 million of environmental costs during the six months ended June 30, 2018 related to a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency-designated Superfund site acquired as part of the Newport Merger.  





Amortization of intangible assets increased by $6.7 million and $11.2 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year, primarily due to the amortization of intangible assets acquired as part of the ESI Merger.  





Interest expense, net, increased by $8.8 million and $11.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, primarily due to interest expense related to Amendment No. 5 to our senior secured term loan facility, as described below.  





The changes in other expense, net, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, primarily related to changes in foreign exchange rates.  





Our effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were 27.2% and 25.3%, respectively. Our effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, and related income tax expense, were higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to a correction of an out of period error with respect to deferred tax assets related to limitations on the deduction of executive compensation in the amount of $5.0 million. This correction, which should have been recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2018, increased our effective tax rates in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 by 9.8% and 7.5% respectively. The prior period error and subsequent correction were not material to prior or current interim and annual financial statements. Our effective tax rates for these periods were also higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate due to the tax effect of the global intangible low taxed income inclusion offset by the deduction for foreign derived intangible income, the benefit from the reinstatement of a capital loss, and the utilization of various tax credits.    





Table of Contents 



Our effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were 17.3% and 17.2%, respectively. Our effective tax rates for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, and related income tax expense, were lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to foreign earnings taxed at lower rates, windfall benefits of stock compensation and the deduction for foreign derived intangible income offset by the tax effect of the provision for global intangible low taxed income inclusion and state income taxes.  



As of June 30, 2019, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $40.8 million. At December 31, 2018, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, was approximately $32.7 million. The net increase is primarily attributable to the addition of historical gross unrecognized tax benefits for ESI as a result of the ESI Merger during the quarter ended March 31, 2019. As of June 30, 2019, excluding interest and penalties, there were approximately $33.1 million of net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact our annual effective tax rate. We accrue interest and, if applicable, penalties for any uncertain tax positions. Interest and penalties are classified as a component of income tax expense. As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had accrued interest on unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $0.6 million and $0.6 million, respectively. 



Over the next 12 months it is reasonably possible that we may recognize approximately $1.2 million of previously net unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, related to federal, state and foreign tax positions as a result of the expiration of statutes of limitation. The U.S. statute of limitations remains open for tax years 2016 through present. The statute of limitations for our tax filings in other jurisdictions varies between fiscal years 2013 through the present. We also have certain federal credit carry-forwards and state tax loss and credit carry-forwards that are open to examination for tax years 2000 through the present.  



We are subject to examination by U.S. federal, state and foreign tax authorities. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service commenced an examination of our U.S. federal income tax filings for tax years 2015 and 2016 during the quarter ended September 30, 2017. This audit was effectively settled during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, and the impact was not material. Also during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 we received notification from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service of their intent to audit our U.S. subsidiary, Newport Corporation, for tax year 2015. This audit commenced during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 and was effectively settled during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 with a no change result.  



On a quarterly basis, we evaluate both positive and negative evidence that affects the realizability of net deferred tax assets and assess the need for a valuation allowance. The future benefit to be derived from our deferred tax assets is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in each jurisdiction of the right type to realize the assets.  



Our future effective tax rate depends on various factors, including further interpretations and guidance from U.S. federal and state governments on the impact of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the adoption of the proposed regulations on the foreign derived intangible income and the global intangible 



low-taxed income provision, as well as the geographic composition of our 



pre-tax income, and changes in income tax reserves for unrecognized tax benefits. We monitor these factors and timely adjust our estimates of the effective tax rate accordingly. We expect that the geographic mix of 



pre-tax income will continue to have a favorable impact on our effective tax rate, however the geographic mix of 



pre-tax income can change based on multiple factors resulting in changes to the effective tax rate in future periods. While we believe we have adequately provided for all tax positions, amounts asserted by taxing authorities could materially differ from our accrued positions as a result of uncertain and complex application of tax law and regulations. Additionally, the recognition and measurement of certain tax benefits include estimates and judgment by management. Accordingly, we could record additional provisions or benefits for U.S. federal, state, and foreign tax matters in future periods as new information becomes available. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources  



Cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable investments totaled $459.9 million at June 30, 2019, compared to $718.2 million at December 31, 2018. This decrease primarily related to the use of $406.0 million of cash to fund the payment of a portion of the purchase price for ESI on February 1, 2019.  



Net cash provided by operating activities was $106.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and resulted from net income of $50.2 million, which included 



non-cash charges of $107.6 million, offset by a net increase in working capital of $51.2 million. The net increase in working capital was due to an increase in inventories of $30.8 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $24.6 million, a decrease in accrued compensation of $17.8 million, a decrease in income taxes of $3.9 million, an increase in other-current and 



non-current assets of $0.9 million, and a decrease in other current and 



non-current liabilities of $0.3 million, offset by a decrease in trade accounts receivable of $27.1 million. 



Net cash provided by operating activities was $182.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and resulted from net income of $228.0 million, which included 



non-cash charges of $72.6 million, offset by a net increase in working capital of $118.2 million. The net increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in inventories of $59.5 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $42.5 million, related to an  





Table of Contents 



increase in business activities, a decrease in accrued compensation of $15.9 million, as 



year-end bonuses were paid during the first quarter of 2018, a decrease in income taxes of $11.4 million and an increase in other current and 



non-current assets of $4.3 million. This increase in working capital was offset by an increase in other current and 



non-current liabilities of $9.9 million and an increase in accounts payable of $5.6 million.  



Net cash used in investing activities was $936.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and was primarily due to the payment of a portion of the purchase price for the ESI Merger of $988.6 million and purchases of production-related equipment of $28.2 million, partially offset by net sales and maturities of short-term investments of $80.2 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $16.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 due to purchases of production-related equipment of $21.8 million, offset by net sales and maturities of short-term investments of $5.3 million.  



Net cash provided by financing activities was $554.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and was primarily from net proceeds of $587.4 million, mainly from our 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, as described below, used to finance the ESI Merger, partially offset by net payments related to tax payments for employee stock awards of $11.0 million and dividend payments made to common stockholders of $21.7 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $74.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and resulted from partial repayment of the Term Loan Facility, as described below, of $50.0 million, dividend payments made to common stockholders of $20.8 million and net payments related to tax payments for employee stock awards of $13.0 million, partially offset by net borrowings relating to our lines of credit of $8.9 million. 



On July 25, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for the repurchase of up to an aggregate of $200 million of our outstanding common stock from time to time in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or through other appropriate means. The timing and quantity of any shares repurchased depends upon a variety of factors, including business conditions, stock market conditions and business development activities, including but not limited to merger and acquisition opportunities. These repurchases may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. We have repurchased approximately 2,588,000 shares of common stock for approximately $127.0 million pursuant to the program since its adoption. During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no repurchases of common stock.  



Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when and if they are declared by our Board of Directors. In addition, we accrue dividend equivalents on the restricted stock units we assumed in the ESI Merger when dividends are declared by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.20 per share during each of the first and second quarters of 2019, respectively, which totaled $21.7 million, or $0.40 per share. Our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.18 per share during the first quarter of 2018 and $0.20 per share during the second quarter of 2018, which totaled $20.8 million, or $0.38 per share.   



On July 29, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share to be paid on September 6, 2019 to shareholders of record as of August 26, 2019. Future dividend declarations, if any, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. In addition, under the terms of our senior secured Term Loan Facility and our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility, we may be restricted from paying dividends under certain circumstances.  



Term Loan Credit Agreement  





The Wall Street Journal, (3) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for an interest period of one month adjusted for certain additional costs, plus 1.00%, and (4) a floor of 1.75%, plus, in each case, an applicable margin; or (b) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing adjusted for certain additional costs, subject to a LIBOR rate floor of 0.75%, plus an applicable margin. We have elected the interest rate as described in clause (b). The Credit Agreement provides that, unless an alternate rate of interest is agreed, all loans will be determined by reference to the Base Rate if the LIBOR rate cannot be ascertained, if regulators impose material restrictions on the authority of a lender to make LIBOR rate loans, or for other reasons. The 2016 Term Loan Facility was issued with original issue discount of 1.00% of the principal amount thereof. 



We subsequently entered into four separate repricing amendments to the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which decreased the applicable margin for LIBOR borrowings from 4.0% to 1.75%, with a LIBOR rate floor of 0.75%. As a consequence of the pricing of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility (defined below), the applicable margin for the 2016 Term Loan Facility was increased to 2.00% (from 1.75%) with respect to LIBOR borrowings and 1.00% (from 0.75%) with respect to base rate borrowings. The interest rate on the 2016 Term Loan Facility as of June 30, 2019 was 4.4%.  





Table of Contents 



In September 2016, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement, which has a maturity date of September 30, 2020, to fix the rate on $335.0 million of the then-outstanding balance under the 2016 Term Loan Facility. The rate is fixed at 1.198% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 2.0% at June 30, 2019. The notional amount of the interest rate swap agreement was $290.0 million and had a fair value asset of $2.1 million at June 30, 2019.  



As of June 30, 2019, after total principal prepayments of $475.0 million (which includes a $50.0 million prepayment made during the three months ended June 30, 2019) and regularly scheduled principal payments of $6.5 million, the total outstanding principal balance of the 2016 Term Loan Facility was $298.5 million. As a result of making these prepayments, we are no longer required to make any regularly scheduled principal payments on the 2016 Term Loan Facility until the maturity date of the loan.  



We incurred $28.7 million of deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the term loans under the 2016 Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method. A portion of these fees have been accelerated in connection with the various debt prepayments during 2016, 2017 and 2018. As of June 30, 2019, the remaining balance of the deferred finance fees, original issue discount and repricing fees related to the 2016 Term Loan Facility was $2.6 million.  



On February 1, 2019, in connection with the completion of the ESI Merger, we entered into an amendment (“Amendment No. 5”) to the Credit Agreement. Amendment No. 5 provided an additional tranche 



B-5 term loan commitment in the principal amount of $650.0 million (the “2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility”), all of which was drawn down in connection with the closing of the ESI Merger. Pursuant to Amendment No. 5, we also effectuated certain amendments to the Credit Agreement which make certain of the negative covenants and other provisions less restrictive. The 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility matures on February 1, 2026 and bears interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, a base rate or LIBOR rate (as described above) plus, in each case, an applicable margin equal to 1.25% with respect to base rate borrowings and 2.25% with respect to LIBOR borrowings. The 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility was issued with original issue discount of 1.00% of the principal amount thereof. 



On April 3, 2019, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement, which has a maturity date of March 31, 2023, to fix the rate on $300.0 million of the outstanding balance of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility. The rate is fixed at 2.309% per annum plus the applicable credit spread, which was 2.25% at June 30, 2019. At June 30, 2019, the notional amount of this transaction was $300.0 million and had a fair value liability of $6.7 million.  



We incurred $11.4 million of deferred finance fees and original issue discount fees related to the term loans under the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, which are included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the estimated life of the term loans using the effective interest method. As of June 30, 2019, the remaining balance of the deferred finance fees and original issue discount related to the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility was $10.9 million.  



We are required to make scheduled quarterly payments each equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, with the balance due on February 1, 2026. If, on or prior to the date that is six months after the closing date of Amendment No. 5, we prepay any loans under the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility in connection with a repricing transaction, we must pay a prepayment premium of 1.00% of the aggregate principal amount of the loans so prepaid. At June 30, 2019, after regularly scheduled principal payments of $1.6 million, the total balance outstanding of the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility was $648.4 million, and the interest rate was 4.7%.  



Under the Credit Agreement, we are required to prepay outstanding term loans under the 2016 Term Loan Facility and the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility, subject to certain exceptions, with portions of our annual excess cash flow as well as with the net cash proceeds of certain asset sales, certain casualty and condemnation events and the incurrence or issuance of certain debt. As a result of our Total Leverage Ratio, we were not required to make a prepayment of excess cash flow for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.  



All obligations under the Term Loan Facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries, and are collateralized by substantially all of our assets and the assets of such subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions.  



The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and provisions relating to events of default. If an event of default occurs, the Lenders under the Term Loan Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the Term Loan Facility and all actions generally permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At June 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement.  



Senior Secured Asset-Based Revolving Credit Facility  



On February 1, 2019, in connection with the completion of the ESI Merger, we entered into an asset-based credit agreement with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, the other borrowers from time to time party thereto, and the lenders and letters of credit issuers from time to time party thereto (the “ABL Credit Agreement”), that provides senior secured revolving credit financing of up to $100.0 million, subject      





Table of Contents 







The Wall Street Journal, (3) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for an interest period of one month adjusted for certain additional costs, plus 1.00% and (4) a floor of 0.00%; and (b) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing adjusted for certain additional costs, with a floor of 0.00%. The initial applicable margin for borrowings under the ABL Facility is 0.50% with respect to base rate borrowings and 1.50% with respect to LIBOR borrowings. Commencing with the completion of the first fiscal quarter ending after the closing of the ABL Facility, the applicable margin for borrowings thereunder is subject to upward or downward adjustment each fiscal quarter, based on the average historical excess availability during the preceding quarter. 



In addition to paying interest on any outstanding principal under the ABL Facility, we are required to pay a commitment fee in respect of the unutilized commitments thereunder equal to 0.25% per annum. We must also pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees.  



We incurred $0.8 million of costs in connection with the ABL Facility, which were capitalized and included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized to interest expense over the contractual term of five years of the ABL Facility. As a result of a prior asset-based facility being terminated concurrently with our entry into the ABL Facility, we wrote off $0.2 million of previously capitalized debt issuance costs.  



The ABL Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and provisions relating to events of default. If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the ABL Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the ABL Facility and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. We have not borrowed against this ABL Facility to date.  



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  



We do not have any financial partnerships with unconsolidated entities, such as entities often referred to as structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities, which are often established for the purpose of facilitating 



off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Accordingly, we have no 



off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably expected to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. 



Contractual Obligations  



Other than the 2019 Incremental Term Loan Facility for $650.0 million described above, there have been no other changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 



10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 





Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 





internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an 



internal-use software license). The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments to this update. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating the requirements of this ASU and adoption could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.     





Table of Contents 



