Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained and the hedged relationship has been effective, are deferred and included in income or expenses in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of income as they are incurred.
As part of our strategy to reduce volatility of operating expenses due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we employ a hedging program with forward outlook of up to two years for major foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses. The outstanding forward currency exchange contracts expire at various dates through September 2021. The net unrealized losses, which approximate the fair market value of the forward currency exchange contracts, are expected to be realized into net income within the next two years.
Our investments in several of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. These fluctuations are recorded within stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other monetary foreign-denominated assets and liabilities are revalued on a monthly basis with gains and losses on revaluation reflected in net income. A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at September 28, 2019 would have affected the annualized foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $16.0 million. In addition, a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at September 28, 2019 would have affected the value of foreign-currency-denominated cash and investments by less than $15.0 million.
