Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Due to the acquisition of Deephi Tech, we included business combinations as our critical accounting policy. We use the acquisition method of accounting and allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquiree based on their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of these assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair values of assets required and liabilities acquired, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows, which includes consideration of future growth and margins, future changes in technology, expected cost and time to develop in-process research and development, brand awareness and discount rates. Fair value estimates are based on the assumptions management believes a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. 
Net Revenues
•Advanced Products include our most recent product offerings and consist of the Alveo branded boards, UltraScale+, UltraScale and 7-series product families.
•Core Products consist of all other product families.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019.
Net Revenues by Product
Net Revenues by End Markets
Net revenues from Data Center and TME increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily due to higher sales from all sub-segments with particular strength coming from Data Center. 
Net revenues from Automotive, Broadcast and Consumer increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were due to higher sales from all sub-segments, with particular strength coming from Automotive and Audio, Video and Broadcast.
Net revenues from Communications increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily due to higher sales from all sub-segments, with particular strength coming from Wireless. 
Net Revenues by Geography
Net revenues in North America increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily due to higher sales from Data Center and Wireline, which were sufficient to offset the decline in revenue from Aerospace and Defense in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 
Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were due to a broad-based increase in sales from most of our end markets, in particular the Wireless business in China. 
Net revenues in Europe increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily due to higher sales from TME and Automotive. 
Net revenues in Japan was relatively flat in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, but increased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. Revenue from TME increased for both periods, but the increase was offset by lower sales from Wireless, in particular during the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 
Gross Margin 
Research and Development
Selling, General and Administrative
Amortization expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased slightly from the comparable prior year period. The increase was primarily due to additional amortization expense from intangible assets acquired through the Deephi Tech acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. Amortization expense for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was flat as compared to the prior year period as the additional amortization expense resulted from the Deephi Tech acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was offset by lower amortization expense from previous acquisitions as these acquisition-related intangibles have been fully amortized. 
Stock-Based Compensation
The 4% decrease in stock-based compensation expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to higher forfeiture rate during the current quarter, which sufficiently offset the impact of higher expenses associated with the recent RSU grants that had higher fair value than in the prior years. The 3% increase in stock-based compensation expense for the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to higher expenses associated with RSUs, as we granted RSUs at a higher fair value than in the prior years.
Interest and Other Income, Net
Our net interest and other income, net for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by $4.6 million from the comparable prior year period primarily due to a gain from assessment of fair value of our preexisting investment in Deephi Tech. For the first six months of fiscal 2019, our net interest and other income was relatively flat as compared to the same prior year period. 
The effective tax rate remained flat in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the same prior year period. There was an increase in the provision for income taxes primarily due to the new tax on low-taxed income from foreign subsidiaries and an increase for adjustments to the provisional estimates previously recorded for the TCJA. The increase was offset by a significant reduction in the amount of deferred tax accrued on foreign earnings not considered to be permanently reinvested and the reduction in tax rate from 35% to 21%.
The increase in the effective tax rate in the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the same prior year period was primarily due to the new tax on low-taxed income from foreign subsidiaries, a decrease in excess tax benefits with respect to stock-based compensation, and an increase for adjustments to the provisional estimates previously recorded for the TCJA. The increase was partially offset by a significant reduction in the amount of deferred tax accrued on foreign earnings not considered to be permanently reinvested and the reduction in tax rate from 35% to 21%.
Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources
We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity as well as debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock and debentures under our repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital. Additionally, our investments in debt securities are liquid and available for future business needs.
Operating Activities —During the first six months of fiscal 2019, our operations generated net positive cash flow of $489.3 million, which was $96.3 million higher than the $393.0 million generated during the first six months of fiscal 2018. The positive cash flow from operations generated during the first six months of fiscal 2019 was primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items, increase in accrued liabilities and decrease in accounts receivable. These items were partially offset by increase in other assets. Accounts receivable decreased by $9.3 million and days sales outstanding decreased to 47 days at September 29, 2018 from 55 days at March 31, 2018. We had no collectibility issues and our accounts receivable remained current as of September 29, 2018. We expect our accounts receivable to fluctuate as we partner with our distributors to manage their inventory requirements. Our inventory levels as of September 29, 2018 were $7.5 million higher at $243.6 million compared to $236.1 million at March 31, 2018, but the combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution decreased to 106 days at September 29, 2018 from 117 days at March 31, 2018. 
Investing Activities —Net cash used in investing activities was $328.3 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to $141.0 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018. Net cash used in investing activities during the first six months of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of $223.5 million for business acquisition, $40.5 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment and other intangibles, $38.9 million of net purchases of available-for-sale securities and $25.3 million of other investing activities.
We lease some of our facilities, office buildings and land under non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through April 2029. See "Note 15. Commitments" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part I. "Financial Information," for a schedule of our operating lease commitments as of September 29, 2018 and additional information about operating leases.
software and $25.1 million of commitments primarily related to open purchase orders from ordinary operations. These commitments expire at various dates through December 2022.
As of September 29, 2018, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.
Cash generated from operations is used as our primary source of liquidity and capital resources. Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $400.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in December 2016 (expiring in December 2021). We are not aware of any lack of access to the revolving credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that access to the revolving credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our revolving credit facility is not reliant upon a single bank. There have been no borrowings to date under our existing revolving credit facility.
Item 2.Unregistered Sale of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On May 16, 2016, the Board authorized the 2016 Repurchase Program to repurchase of up to $1.00 billion of shares of our common stock and debentures. The 2016 Repurchase Program has no stated expiration date. Through September 29, 2018, we have used $952.7 million of the $1.00 billion authorized under the 2016 Repurchase Program, leaving $47.3 million available for future purchases. On May 16, 2018, the Board authorized the 2018 Repurchase Program to repurchase the Company's common stock and debentures up to $500.0 million. 
+Portions of this Exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment.
Items 3, 4 and 5 are not applicable and have been omitted.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
