Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Our exposure to interest rate risk relates to certain types of investments, which consist of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $3.06 billion as of December 29, 2018, and to our interest rate swap contracts in relation to the issuance of the 2024 Notes (as our interest rate swap contracts carry a variable interest rate based on LIBOR plus a spread). These investments include mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, debt mutual funds and commercial mortgage-backed securities. Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. A hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at December 29, 2018 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $33.0 million.
investments should credit market conditions deteriorate. See "Note 5. Financial Instruments" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part 1. "Financial Information."
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained and the hedged relationship has been effective, are deferred and included in income or expenses in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of income as they are incurred.
As part of our strategy to reduce volatility of operating expenses due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we employ a hedging program with forward outlook of up to two years for major foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses. The outstanding forward currency exchange contracts expire at various dates through November 2020. The net unrealized losses, which approximate the fair market value of the forward currency exchange contracts, are expected to be realized into net income within the next two years.
