The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
EnerSys (the “Company”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The consolidated condensed financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and any partially owned subsidiaries that the Company has the ability to control.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
1. identify the contract with a customer; 3. determine the transaction price; 4. allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations; and 5. recognize revenue as the performance obligations are satisfied.
Control of a performance obligation may transfer to the customer either at a point in time or over time depending on an evaluation of the specific facts and circumstances for each contract, including the terms and conditions of the contract as agreed with the customer, as well as the nature of the products or services to be provided.
A small portion of the Company's customer arrangements oblige the Company to create customized products for its customers that require the bundling of both products and services into a single performance obligation because the individual products and services that are required to fulfill the customer requirements do not meet the definitions for a distinct performance obligation.
These customized products generally have no alternative use to the Company and the terms and conditions of these arrangements give the Company the enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, including a reasonable profit margin.
For these arrangements, control transfers over time and the Company measures progress towards completion by selecting the input or output method that best depicts the transfer of control of the underlying goods and services to the customer for each respective arrangement.•Reserve power products are used for backup power for the continuous operation of critical applications in telecommunications systems, uninterruptible power systems, or “UPS” applications for computer and computer-controlled systems, and other specialty power applications, including medical and security systems, premium starting, lighting and ignition applications, in switchgear, electrical control systems used in electric utilities, large-scale energy storage, energy pipelines, in commercial aircraft, satellites, military aircraft, submarines, ships and tactical vehicles.
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $545 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $531 million at September 30, 2018 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
Net sales increased $43.2 million or 7.0% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Net sales increased $91.5 million or 7.4% in the six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the six months of fiscal 2018.
The Americas segment’s net sales increased $47.1 million or 13.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 12% increase in organic volume and a 3% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 1% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
Net sales increased $85.0 million or 12.2% in the six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the six months of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 11% increase in organic volume and a 3% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
The EMEA segment’s net sales increased $6.1 million or 3.1% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 6% increase in organic volume, partially offset by a 3% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.For the remaining two quarters of this fiscal year, we believe approximately 56% of the cost of our lead requirements is known.