fls.txt
EnerSys and its representatives may, from time to time, make written or verbal forward-looking statements, including statements contained in EnerSys’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its reports to stockholders.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
EnerSys (the “Company,”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The consolidated condensed financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and any partially owned subsidiaries that the Company has the ability to control.
•to apply the short-term lease exception to leases that, at the commencement date, has a lease term of 12 months or less and does not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise.
The discount rates used to calculate the ROU assets and lease liabilities as of the effective date were based on the remaining lease terms as of the effective date.
A small portion of the Company's customer arrangements oblige the Company to create customized products for its customers that require the bundling of both products and services into a single performance obligation because the individual products and services that are required to fulfill the customer requirements do not meet the definition for a distinct performance obligation.
These customized products generally have no alternative use to the Company and the terms and conditions of these arrangements give the Company the enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, including a reasonable profit margin.
For these arrangements, control transfers over time and the Company measures progress towards completion by selecting the input or output method that best depicts the transfer of control of the underlying goods and services to the customer for each respective arrangement.
At September 29, 2019, the right of return asset related to the value of inventory anticipated to be returned from customers was $2,667 and refund liability representing amounts estimated to be refunded to customers was $5,213.
Guidance in Topic 842 is used to evaluate whether the contract has an identified asset; if the Company has the right to obtain substantially all economic benefits from the asset; and if it has the right to direct the use of the underlying asset.
When determining if the Company has the right to obtain substantially all economic benefits from the asset, the Company considers the primary outputs of the identified asset throughout the period of use and determines if it receives greater than 90% of those benefits.
When determining if it has the right to direct the use of an underlying asset, the Company considers if it has the right to direct how and for what purpose the asset is used throughout the period of use and if it controls the decision-making rights over the asset.
The Company exercises its judgment to determine the term of those leases when extension or termination options are present and include such options in the calculation of the lease term when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise those options.
The Company has elected to include both lease and non-lease components in the determination of lease payments for all asset classes.
The fixed portion of these payments are included in the calculation of the lease liability, while any variable portion would be recognized as variable lease expenses, when incurred.


item2.txt
Additionally, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Alpha Technologies Inc. and certain assets of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. and other affiliates of ATS and ATL (all such sellers, together with ATS and ATL, “Alpha”), in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of certain restructuring agreements (collectively, the “asset acquisition” and together with the share purchase, the “acquisition”).
On September 30, 2019, we completed the acquisition of NorthStar, headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, for $78.0 million in cash consideration and the assumption of $104.5 million in debt, which was funded using existing cash and credit facilities.
Lead prices rose for the most part of fiscal 2018, peaked in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and then declined sequentially in every quarter in fiscal 2019.
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $425 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $426 million at September 29, 2019 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
Net sales increased $101.6 million or 15.4% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
This increase was the result of a 22% increase due to the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 4% decrease in organic volume, a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease in pricing.
Net sales increased $210.9 million or 15.8% in the six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the six months of fiscal 2019.
This increase was the result of a 22% increase due to the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 3% decrease in organic volume, a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact and a 1% decrease in pricing.
The Americas segment’s net sales increased $136.3 million or 35.1% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 38% increase from the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 1% decrease each in organic volume, pricing and foreign currency translation impact.
Net sales increased $260.9 or 33.4% in the six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to a 38% increase from the Alpha acquisition, partially offset by a 3% decrease in organic volume and a 1% decrease each in pricing and foreign currency translation impact.


item3.txt
We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
For the remaining two quarters of this fiscal year, we believe approximately 64% of the cost of our lead requirements is known.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.


