fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (SEC File No.
EnerSys (the “Company”) reports interim financial information for 13-week periods, except for the first quarter, which always begins on April 1, and the fourth quarter, which always ends on March 31.
The consolidated condensed financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and any partially owned subsidiaries that the Company has the ability to control.
The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
1. identify the contract with a customer; 3. determine the transaction price; 4. allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations; and 5. recognize revenue as the performance obligations are satisfied.
Control of a performance obligation may transfer to the customer either at a point in time or over time depending on an evaluation of the specific facts and circumstances for each contract, including the terms and conditions of the contract as agreed with the customer, as well as the nature of the products or services to be provided.
A small portion of the Company's customer arrangements oblige the Company to create customized products for its customers that require the bundling of both products and services into a single performance obligation because the individual products and services that are required to fulfill the customer requirements do not meet the definitions for a distinct performance obligation.
These customized products generally have no alternative use to the Company and the terms and conditions of these arrangements give the Company the enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, including a reasonable profit margin.
For these arrangements, control transfers over time and the Company measures progress towards completion by selecting the input or output method that best depicts the transfer of control of the underlying goods and services to the customer for each respective arrangement.
On December 30, 2018, the aggregate transaction price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) performance obligations was approximately $97,189, of which, the Company estimates that approximately $34,244 will be recognized as revenue in fiscal 2019, $47,032 in fiscal 2020, $10,023 in fiscal 2021, $5,738 in fiscal 2022 and $152 in fiscal 2023.
Revenues recognized during the third quarter and nine months of fiscal 2019, that were included in the contract liability at the beginning of the current quarter and nine months, amounted to $1,950 and $2,695, respectively.
The Company uses historic customer product return data as a basis of estimation for customer returns and records the reduction of sales at the time revenue is recognized.
At December 30, 2018, the right of return asset related to the value of inventory anticipated to be returned from customers was $2,647 and refund liability representing amounts estimated to be refunded to customers was $5,013.
If shipping activities are performed after a customer obtains control of a product, the Company applies a policy election to account for shipping as an activity to fulfill the promise to transfer the product to the customer.
However, since the recoverability period is less than one year, the Company has utilized the practical expedient to record these costs of obtaining a contract as an expense as they are incurred.


item2.txt
•Reserve power products are used for backup power for the continuous operation of critical applications in telecommunications systems, uninterruptible power systems, or “UPS” applications for computer and computer-controlled systems, and other specialty power applications, including medical and security systems, premium starting, lighting and ignition applications, in switchgear, electrical control systems used in electric utilities, large-scale energy storage, energy pipelines, in commercial aircraft, satellites, military aircraft, submarines, ships and tactical vehicles.
Additionally, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Alpha Technologies Inc. and certain assets of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. and other affiliates of ATS and ATL (all such sellers, together with ATS and ATL, “Alpha”), in each case in accordance with the terms and conditions of certain restructuring agreements (collectively, the “asset acquisition” and together with the share purchase, the “acquisition”).
The aggregate purchase consideration for the acquisition was $750.0 million, of which $650.0 million was paid in cash and the balance was settled by issuing 1,177,630 shares of EnerSys common stock.
We believe that our financial position is strong, and we have substantial liquidity with $397 million of available cash and cash equivalents and available and undrawn credit lines of approximately $505 million at December 30, 2018 to cover short-term liquidity requirements and anticipated growth in the foreseeable future.
The amendment resulted in an increase of the 2017 Term Loan and the 2017 Revolver by $299.1 million and $100.0 million, respectively.
Net sales increased $21.1 million or 3.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Net sales increased $112.6 million or 5.9% in the nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the nine months of fiscal 2018.
This increase was the result of a 4% increase in organic volume, a 2% increase in pricing and a 1% increase in revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by a 1% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
The Americas segment’s net sales increased $48.8 million or 13.8% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 8% increase in revenues from acquisitions, 5% increase in organic volume and a 3% increase in pricing, partially offset by a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.
Net sales increased $133.8 million or 12.8% in the nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the nine months of fiscal 2018, primarily due to a 9% increase in organic volume and a 3% increase each in pricing and acquisitions, partially offset by a 2% decrease in foreign currency translation impact.


item3.txt
We manage our exposure to these market risks through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
For the remaining quarter of this fiscal year, we believe approximately 100% of the cost of our lead requirements is known.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The ability of Alpha and EnerSys to realize the anticipated benefits of the Transaction will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to combine Alpha’s and our businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes anticipated synergies, and achieves the projected stand-alone cost savings and revenue growth trends identified by each company.
It is expected that we will benefit from operational and general and administrative cost synergies resulting from the warehouse and transportation integration, direct procurement savings on overlapping materials, purchasing scale on indirect spend categories and optimization of duplicate positions and processes.


