For further information, refer to the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
PCTEL’s Connected Solutions segment designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL operates in two segments for reporting purposes, Connected Solutions and RF Solutions.
PCTEL Connected Solutions designs and manufactures precision antennas.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company approved a plan to sell its Network Engineering Service business (“Engineering Services”) and shift its focus toward research and development driven radio frequency (“RF”) products.
On July 31, 2017, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of the Company’s Engineering Services business to Gabe’s Construction Co., Inc. (“Gabe’s”) for a purchase price of $1.45 million.
The Engineering Services business provided design, testing, commissioning, optimization, and consulting services for cellular, Wi-Fi and public safety networks and was a reporting unit within the RF Solutions segment.
Due to the significance of its historical results and because this disposition represented a strategic shift by the Company to focus on products, the disposition of Engineering Services also qualified as a discontinued operation for reporting purposes.
The Company restated the results of Engineering Services as discontinued operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2017.
There were no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
See Note 13 related to Revenue from Contracts with Customers for additional disclosures related to revenue policies.
Net foreign exchange losses resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $69 and $12 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.Our first quarter 2018 revenues decreased by $1.2 million, or 5.4% compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues for the RF Solutions segment.
We recorded an operating loss of $1.2 million compared to operating income of $22 during the same period in 2017.
PCTEL antennas are primarily sold to OEM providers where they are designed into the customer’s solution.
These include radio frequency engineering, mobile antenna design and manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.
These include radio frequency engineering, digital signal processing (“DSP”) engineering, manufacturing, mechanical engineering, product quality and testing, and wireless network engineering.