The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
As of March 31, 2019, $199 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability were classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $54 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the BOHA!™, AccuDate™, Epic®, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca®, and Printrex® brand names.
Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels, coupons and transaction records such as receipts, tickets and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), value-added resellers, select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
Net sales for the first quarter of 2019 decreased $0.7 million, or 6%, from the same period in 2018.
The decrease in domestic restaurant solutions revenue for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was driven largely by lower sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal to our former U.S. distributor.
software on a SaaS subscription basis.
The decrease in domestic POS automation and banking product revenue for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a 24% decrease in domestic sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer, as sales to McDonald’s decreased for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in 2018.
The increase in domestic revenue from TSG for the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to an increase in label sales and increased service revenue related to our restaurant solutions products.
Service revenue also increased 24% for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018.
Additionally, we had a 18% increase in sales of our legacy HP inkjet cartridges used in our banking printers.Item 5.Item 1.