See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
As of March 31, 2018, $196 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $82 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels and transaction records such as receipts, tickets, coupons, register journals and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), value-added resellers ("VARs"), select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
Net sales for the first quarter of 2018 decreased $1.8 million, or 13%, from the same period in 2017.
The average selling price of our printers and terminals increased 15% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017. International sales for the first quarter of 2018 decreased $1.4 million, or 41%, from the same period in 2017 primarily due to a decrease in sales in the international lottery market and to a lesser extent a 14% decrease in the international casino and gaming market.
This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our AccuDate Pro terminal to our U.S. distributor.
We expect sales of our restaurant solutions terminals to increase in 2018 compared to 2017 as we benefit from the strategic selling and marketing investments implemented during 2017.
We expect sales to McDonald's to decrease for the full year 2018 compared to the full year 2017, as McDonald's completes the implementation of initiatives that use the Ithaca 9000, which began in 2015.
The increase in domestic sales of our casino and gaming products was due largely to a 19% increase in domestic sales of our thermal casino printers in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017, driven primarily by increased sales to our OEMs.
Sales of our off-premise gaming printers are largely project-oriented and therefore may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year.Item 1.