See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”) is a global leader in developing and selling software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets including restaurant solutions, point of sale (“POS”) automation and banking, casino and gaming, lottery, and oil and gas.
Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the AccuDate™, Epic, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca® and Printrex® brand names.
Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality date code, grab-and-go and nutritional labels for food items and transaction records such as receipts, tickets, coupons, register journals and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data.
Our product distribution spans across the Americas, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific.
TransAct also provides world-class service, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to its growing worldwide installed base of products.
We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, and marketing of software-driven technology and printing solutions for high growth markets, and provide related services, supplies and spare parts.
Net sales for the third quarter of 2018 increased $314 thousand, or 2%, from the same period in 2017.
Printer and terminal sales volume increased 12% to approximately 42 thousand units for the third quarter of 2018, driven primarily by a 73% increase in unit volume from the casino and gaming market and, to a lesser extent, a 9% increase in unit volume from the POS automation and banking market.
These increases were partially offset by a 74% decline in unit volume from the lottery market and, to a lesser extent, a 41% decline in unit volume from the restaurant solutions market.
The average selling price of our printers and terminals increased 4% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 due primarily to lower lottery printer sales, which sell at a lower price than our other products.
International sales for the third quarter of 2018 increased $1.1 million, or 55%, from the same period in 2017 due primarily to a 58% increase in sales in the international casino and gaming market.Item 4.Item 1.