See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of June 30, 2018, $208 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $95 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.Our world-class products are designed from the ground up based on market and customer requirements and are sold under the AccuDate™, Epic, EPICENTRAL™, Ithaca® and Printrex® brand names.
Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels and transaction records such as receipts, tickets, coupons, register journals and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), value-added resellers ("VARs"), select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
Net sales for the second quarter of 2018 increased $1.2 million, or 8%, from the same period in 2017.
These increases were partially offset by an 83% decline in unit volume from the lottery market.
The increase in domestic restaurant solutions terminal sales in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 was driven by the initial shipments of the AccuDate XL to two existing customers in support of large-scale, multi-quarter rollouts of the terminal.
This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our AccuDate 9700 terminal to our former U.S. distributor during the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017.
Shipments of AccuDate XL terminals exceeded sales of AccuDate 9700 terminals for the first time in the second quarter of 2018.
We expect this level of sales to McDonald's to continue into the third quarter of 2018.
These increases were due to the early success of the transition away from using our previous exclusive worldwide distributor whose contract ended at the end of 2017.
The increase in sales of Printrex printers in the second quarter of 2018 compared to second quarter of 2017 resulted from a 84% increase in domestic and international sales of our oil and gas printers.Item 1.