fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (“TransAct”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Sales and usage-based taxes are excluded from revenues.
Notes receivable are stated at unpaid balances and interest income is recognized on the accrual method.
As of September 30, 2019, we have no allowances for loan losses, unamortized deferred loan fees or unearned discounts.
We maintain a credit facility (the “TD Bank Credit Facility”) with TD Bank N.A.
We were not in compliance with one of our financial covenants of the TD Bank Credit Facility at September 30, 2019.


item2.txt
Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal and inkjet printers and terminals generate top-quality labels, coupons and transaction records such as receipts, tickets and other documents, as well as printed logging and plotting of data.
We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), value-added resellers, select distributors, as well as directly to end-users.
Terminals over the balance of 2019 relating to these commitments.
In July 2019, TransAct announced that it secured a new agreement with a large U.S. foodservice provider for the deployment of BOHA!
SaaS-based apps at more than 400 locations by 2021 year end.
SaaS based apps.
We completed the sale during the third quarter of 2019.
SaaS-based apps across 45 locations in the U.S. TransAct expects approximately 30 customer locations to go live with the BOHA!
Net sales for the third quarter of 2019 decreased $4.2 million, or 26%, from the same period in 2018.
Hardware sales increased by 2% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018. solution sale to a casino operator located in the Asia-Pacific market.
We expect sales of our Ithaca® 9000 printer to McDonald’s to be lower for the full year 2019 compared to the full year 2018.
These decreases were partially offset by slightly higher revenue from recurring EPICENTRALTM annual software maintenance fees during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
We did not complete any new installations of our EPICENTRAL™ software systems in the third quarter of 2019 or 2018.
The decrease was partially offset by 37% higher international sales of our off-premise gaming printers during the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018, primarily to an OEM in Europe for sports betting, as well as stronger sales in Australia.
The decrease in domestic revenue from TSG for the third quarter of 2019 as compared to the prior year period was due primarily to lower sales of replacement parts including lower sales of lottery printer spare parts to IGT.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2019.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.
We have taken certain actions in response to Brexit and in anticipation of E.U.


