item1.txt
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018 and January 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $0 and $62,000 of royalty income, respectively, for RadioMobile, which amount has been included within discontinued operations.
During March 2016, the Company announced the shutdown of its Bioconnect division, which comprised the entire operations of the Medical Cabling and Interconnect segment.
The closure is part of the Company’s ongoing plan to close or dispose of underperforming divisions that are not part of the Company’s core operations.
For the three months ended January 31, 2017, the Company recognized approximately $10,000 of income from sale of equipment for the Bioconnect division, which has been included within discontinued operations.
The Company estimates the fair value of the earn-out liability using a probability-weighted scenario of estimated qualifying earn-out gross profit related to Rel-Tech and EBITDA related to Comnet calculated at net present value (level 3 of the fair value hierarchy).
The Company’s current stock incentive plan provides for the granting of qualified and nonqualified options to the Company’s officers, directors and employees.
The Company satisfies the exercise of options by issuing previously unissued common shares.
On December 13, 2017, the Company granted 80,000 incentive stock options to an employee.
No options were granted to Company employees during the three months ended January 31, 2017.
Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the Company’s stock price and other factors.
The Company used the historical method to calculate the expected life of the 2018 and 2017 option grants.
Non-employee directors receive $50,000 annually, which is paid one-half in cash and one-half through the grant of non-qualified stock options to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock.
During the quarter ended January 31, 2018, the Company granted each of its five non-employee directors 37,927 options.
During the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, stock-based compensation expense totaled $75,000 and $51,000, respectively.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable.
The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents with high-credit quality financial institutions.
At January 31, 2018, the Company had cash and cash equivalent balances in excess of federally insured limits in the amount of approximately $5.3 million.
One customer accounted for approximately 36% of the Company’s net sales for the three-month period ended January 31, 2018.
At January 31, 2018, this customer’s accounts receivable balance accounted for approximately 32% of the Company’s total net accounts receivable balance.
Two customers accounted for approximately 15% and 10% of the Company’s net sales for the three-month period ended January 31, 2017.
At January 31, 2017, these customers’ accounts receivable balances accounted for approximately 15% and 13% of the Company’s total net accounts receivable balance.
As reviewed by the Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Company evaluates the performance of each segment based on income or loss before income taxes.
The Company charges depreciation and amortization directly to each division within the segment.
Except as discussed above, the accounting policies for segment reporting are the same for the Company as a whole.
The Company currently leases its corporate headquarters and RF connector and cable assembly manufacturing facilities in San Diego, California.
On June 5, 2017, the Company entered into a fifth amendment to its lease for its facility in San Diego, California.
As a result, the Company now leases a total of approximately 21,908 square feet of office, warehouse and manufacturing space at its San Diego location.
The San Diego lease also requires the payment of the Company’s pro rata share of real estate taxes and insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses related to the facilities.
The Company paid dividends of $0.02 per share during the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 for a total of $176,000 per period.
On March 8, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.02 per share to be paid on April 15, 2018 to stockholders of record on March 31, 2018.


item2.txt
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment.
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment.
These events or circumstances requires significant judgment and could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition and sale or disposition of all or a portion of a division.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
The earn-out was and will continue to be revalued quarterly using a present value approach and any resulting increase or decrease will be recorded into selling and general expenses.
Accordingly, significant variances between actual and forecasted results or changes in the assumptions can materially impact the amount of contingent consideration expense we record in future periods.
If a deduction reported on a tax return for an equity-based incentive award exceeds the cumulative compensation cost for those instruments recognized for financial reporting purposes, any resulting realized tax benefit that exceeds the previously calculated deferred tax asset for those instruments is considered an excess tax benefit, and is recognized as additional paid-in capital.
Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with management’s expectations could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.
·As of January 31, 2018, the Company had $18.8 million in current assets and $4.9 million in current liabilities.
Subsequent to the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017, the Company has seen an increase in orders for its products in each of its four divisions.
As a result of these increased orders, the Company’s backlog has increased from $4.0 million as of October 31, 2017 to $20.2 million as of January 31, 2018.
Accordingly, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are also expected to materially increase in the current fiscal year.
The Company used cash of $0.2 million during the three months ended January 31, 2018 due largely to the impact of increased sales.
As a result of the increased sales, accounts receivables ($1.5 million) and inventories ($0.7 million) increased, which was partially offset by increased accounts payable ($0.7 million) and accrued expenses ($0.5 million).
This net decrease in cash was partially offset by an increase in cash from net income of $0.5 million, noncash credits of $0.2 million primarily from depreciation and amortization related to the acquisitions of Comnet, Rel-Tech and CompPro, and $0.1 million of stock-based compensation expense.
In addition, during the quarter the Company received $0.2 million from the exercise of stock options and paid out $0.2 million in dividends.
The Company does not anticipate needing material additional capital equipment in the next twelve months.
In the past, the Company has financed some of its equipment and furnishings requirements through capital leases.
Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary.
Any future acquisitions may require the Company to make cash payments, which may reduce the Company’s future liquidity and capital resources.
The Company’s gross profit as a percentage of sales in the fiscal 2018 quarter increased by 2% to 30% compared to 28% in the fiscal 2017 quarter due primarily to the increased revenues at the Custom Cabling division.
Engineering expenses increased $0.1 million during the fiscal 2018 quarter to $0.3 million compared to $0.2 million for the fiscal 2017 quarter due to increased salary expense related to engineering activities.
Selling and general expenses increased by $0.2 million during the fiscal 2018 quarter to $2.2 million from $2.0 million in the prior year.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Nothing to report.
Noting to report.
In accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Nothing to report.
Defaults upon Senior Securities 
Nothing to report.
Nothing to report.
Noting to report.
In accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


