fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Hurco Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, Singapore Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Polish Zloty, and New Taiwan Dollars.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of January 31, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from February 2018 through January 2019.
Included in this amount were $1.2 million of unrealized losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through January 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of January 31, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, South African Rand, and New Taiwan Dollar with set maturity dates ranging from February 2018 through October 2018.
The 2016 Equity Plan replaced the Hurco Companies, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2008 Plan”) and is the only active plan under which equity awards may be made by us to our employees and non-employee directors.
The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors has the authority to determine the officers, directors and key employees who will be granted awards under the 2016 Equity Plan; designate the number of shares subject to each award; determine the terms and conditions upon which awards will be granted; and prescribe the form and terms of award agreements.
The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the three months ended January 31, 2018 was approximately $492,000.


item2.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world's principal machine tool consuming markets.
Machine castings and components to support HML’s production are manufactured at our wholly-owned subsidiary in Ningbo, China, Ningbo Machine Tool Co., Ltd.
Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary in Italy, LCM.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S.
We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments – principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.


item3.txt
All of our computerized machine tools and computer control systems, as well as certain proprietary service parts, are sourced by our U.S.-based engineering and manufacturing division and re-invoiced to our foreign sales and service subsidiaries, primarily in their functional currencies.


part2.txt
Pursuant to applicable accounting rules, we accrue the minimum liability for each known claim when the estimated outcome is a range of possible loss and no one amount within that range is more likely than another.


