fls.txt



item1.txt
We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
However, in our opinion, the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to present fairly our consolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for and at the end of the interim periods.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of July 31, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Taiwan Dollars with set maturity dates ranging from August 2018 through July 2019.
Dollars at July 31, 2018, were $35.8 million for Euros, $10.0 million for Pounds Sterling and $38.2 million for New Taiwan Dollars.
Included in this amount were $4,000 of unrealized losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through July 2019, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We had forward contracts outstanding as of July 31, 2018, denominated in Euros, Pounds Sterling, South African Rand, and New Taiwan Dollar with set maturity dates ranging from August 2018 through October 2018.
We recognized losses of $58,000 for the three months ended July 31, 2017, as a result of hedges deemed ineffective for financial reporting purposes and did not qualify as cash flow hedges.
We recognized gains of $110,000 for the nine months ended July 31, 2017, as a result of hedges deemed ineffective for financial reporting purposes and did not qualify as cash flow hedges.


item2.txt
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
During the nine months of fiscal 2018, approximately 55% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consuming markets.
Machine castings and components to support HML’s production are manufactured at our wholly-owned subsidiary in Ningbo, China, Ningbo Machine Tool Co., Ltd.
Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
Sales and service fees for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $78.8 million, an increase of $18.0 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $1.8 million, or 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The increase in sales was mainly attributable to an increased sales volume of vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi product lines.
European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 31%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.


item3.txt
All of our computerized machine tools and computer control systems, as well as certain proprietary service parts, are sourced by our U.S.-based engineering and manufacturing division and re-invoiced to our foreign sales and service subsidiaries, primarily in their functional currencies.


part2.txt
Pursuant to applicable accounting rules, we accrue the minimum liability for each known claim when the estimated outcome is a range of possible loss and no one amount within that range is more likely than another.


