item1.txt
Beginning in January 2019, CTS adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" under the optional transition method, which requires, if necessary, a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The lease liability is based on the present value of minimum lease payments discounted using our secured incremental borrowing rate at the date of adoption.
Existing deferred rent liabilities, resulting from our historical practice of using the straight line method for recognizing lease expense, were reclassified upon adoption to reduce the measurement of the lease assets.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which among other things, allows us to carry forward the historical accounting relating to lease identification and classification for existing leases at adoption.
Upon adoption we recorded a lease liability of $24,792 and a right of use asset of $22,066.
To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing the most likely amount method based on an analysis of historical experience and current facts and circumstances, which requires significant judgment.
Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, we recognized revenues of $125 and $231, respectively, for amounts that were included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the period.
Costs associated with exit and restructuring activities are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings as a separate component of Operating earnings.
Beginning in Q3 2019, we incurred restructuring charges of $1,671 for exit and disposal activities at three facilities, of which $800 was related to a lease termination charge resulting from our acquisition of Quality Thermistor, Inc.
We accrue a liability for probable remediation activities, claims and proceedings against us with respect to environmental matters if the amount can be reasonably estimated, and provide disclosures including the nature of a loss whenever it is probable or reasonably possible that a potentially material loss may have occurred but cannot be estimated.
These costs are included in interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to credit risk, which relates to the risk of nonperformance by a counterparty to the derivative contracts.
We manage our credit risk by entering into derivative contracts with only highly rated financial institutions and by using netting agreements.
We use forward contracts to mitigate currency risk related to a portion of our forecasted foreign currency revenues and costs.
The currency forward contracts are designed as cash flow hedges and are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
At September 30, 2019, we had a net unrealized gain of $452 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, of which $432 is expected to be reclassified to income within the next 12 months.
Unrealized gains (losses) on hedges relate to interest rate swaps to convert a portion of our revolving credit facility's outstanding balance from a variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge our exposure to changes in exchange rates affecting certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies.
These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transactions occur, at which time amounts are reclassified into earnings.
Further information related to our derivative financial instruments is included in Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 16 – Fair Value Measurements.
We are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates.
Transaction losses for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $2,473 and $2,828, respectively and transaction losses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $1,740 and $2,658, respectively, which have been included in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The number of awards that were anti-dilutive for the nine month periods ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018 were 20,273 and 1,538, respectively.
There were no outstanding anti-dilutive awards impacting the three month periods ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
During 2015 and 2016, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”) granted a total of 350,000 performance-based stock option awards (“Performance-Based Option Awards”) for certain employees under the 2014 Plan, of which 250,000 remain outstanding after considering forfeitures.
The Performance-Based Option Awards have an exercise price of $18.37, a term of five years, and generally will become exercisable (provided the optionee remains employed by the Company or an affiliate) upon our attainment of at least $600,000 in revenues during any of our trailing four quarterly periods (as determined by the Committee) during the term.
We have not recognized any expense on these Performance-Based Option Awards for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, since the revenue target was not deemed likely to be attained based on our current forecast.
At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, liabilities of $263 and $300, respectively, were included in Accrued liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We use interest rate swaps to convert a portion of our Revolving Credit Facility’s outstanding balance from a variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the effect of foreign currency changes on certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies.
The fair value of our interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges were measured using standard valuation models using market-based observable inputs over the contractual terms, including forward yield curves, among others.
Our long-term debt consists of the Revolving Credit Facility which is recorded at its carrying value.
The fair value of long-term debt approximates carrying value and was determined by valuing a similar hypothetical coupon bond and attributing that value to our long-term debt under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Operating lease liabilities represent the present value of lease payments over the lease term, discounted using an estimate of our secured incremental borrowing rate because none of our leases contain a rate implicit in the lease arrangement.
The operating lease assets and liabilities are adjusted to include the impact of any lease incentives and non-lease components.
We have elected not to record leases with an initial term of 12 months or less on the balance sheet and instead recognize those lease payments on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The purchase price of $75,755 has been allocated to the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired as of July 31, 2019.
Goodwill represents value the Company expects to be created by combining the operations of the acquired business with the Company's operations, including the expansion of customer relationships within our existing business, access to new customers, and potential cost savings and synergies.
The Company recorded $2,167 as the acquisition date fair value of the contingent consideration based on an estimate of the probability of achieving the performance target using the most recent revenue forecast.
This ASU eliminates certain disclosures associated with accumulated other comprehensive income, plan assets, related parties, and the effects of interest rate basis point changes on assumed health care costs; while other disclosures have been added to address significant gains and losses related to changes in benefit obligations.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020 and for interim periods therein with early adoption permitted.
This ASU will impact our financial statement disclosures but will not have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
This ASU will now require companies to recognize the income tax effect of an intra-entity asset transfer (other than inventory) when the transaction occurs.
This ASU is effective for public companies, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual reporting periods.
Early adoption is permitted and is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which amends the current accounting guidance and requires the measurement of all expected losses based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
For trade receivables, loans, and other financial instruments, we will be required to use a forward-looking expected loss model rather than the incurred loss model for recognizing credit losses which reflects losses that are probable.
We plan to adopt this standard on the effective date and are currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on our financial statements.


item2.txt
Sales to other markets increased $417 or 1.0% due to the addition of sales from the QTI acquisition.
The QTI acquisition, which was completed in July 2019, added $3,670 in sales for the quarter.
Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by $922 year-over-year due to the U.S. Dollar appreciating compared to the Chinese Renminbi and Euro and relating mostly to sales of products to the transportation end market.
Gross margin as a percent of sales was 32.0% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to 35.4% in the third quarter of 2018.
The decrease in gross margin was driven primarily by a one-time purchase accounting step-up in the value of finished goods inventory acquired with our QTI acquisition, execution challenges in our ceramic foundry operation, a product replacement charge for a transportation product, and material cost and wage increases.
Research and development expenses were $6,806 or 5.9% of sales in the third quarter of 2019 compared to $6,517 or 5.5% of sales in the comparable quarter of 2018.
Restructuring charges were $2,342 or 2.0% of sales in the third quarter of 2019.
Restructuring charges were $997 or 0.8% of sales in the third quarter of 2018.
Operating earnings were $10,124 or 8.8% of sales in the third quarter of 2019 compared to operating earnings of $16,118 or 13.6% of sales in the third quarter of 2018.
Other expense in the third quarter of 2019 was principally driven by foreign currency translation losses, mainly due to the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Chinese Renminbi during the quarter, as well as pension expense.
The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared with the same period in 2018 is primarily attributed to the net impact of changes in reserves relating to uncertain tax positions.
Sales were $353,959 in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of $3,549 or 1.0% from the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Sales to transportation markets increased $7,348 or 3.3%.
The QTI acquisition, which was completed in July 2019, added $3,670 in sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by $4,554 year-over-year due to the U.S. Dollar appreciating compared to the Chinese Renminbi and Euro and relating mostly to sales of products to the transportation end market.
Gross margin as a percent of sales was 33.6% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to 34.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The decrease in gross margin was driven primarily by a one-time purchase accounting step-up in the value of finished goods inventory acquired with our QTI acquisition, execution challenges in our ceramic foundry operation, a product replacement charge for a transportation product, and material cost and wage increases.
Research and development expenses were $19,854 or 5.6% of sales in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $19,500 or 5.6% of sales in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Restructuring charges were $5,337 or 1.5% of sales in the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Restructuring charges were $3,364 or 1.0% of sales in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Operating earnings were $41,424 or 11.7% of sales in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to operating earnings of $44,021 or 12.6% of sales in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Other expense in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was principally driven by foreign currency translation losses, mainly due to the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Chinese Renminbi during the first nine months of the year, as well as pension expense.
Our effective income tax rate was 30.3% and 29.7% in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Working capital increased by $9,112 during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to the increase in accounts receivable, inventory and other assets as well as the decrease of accounts payable and accrued payroll and benefits, which were partially offset by an increase in operating lease obligations.
We have historically funded our capital and operating needs primarily through cash flows from operating activities, supported by available credit under our Revolving Credit Facility.
We believe that cash flows from operating activities and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months.
Over the last three years, product warranty reserves have ranged from 0.5% to 2.4% of total sales.
After considering the recommendations of our actuaries, we have assumed a discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and a rate of compensation increase in determining our annual pension income and expense and the projected benefit obligation.
If a quantitative assessment is required, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of discounted cash flow analysis and market-based valuation methodologies.
Determining fair value using a quantitative approach requires significant judgment, including judgments about projected revenues, operating expenses, working capital investment, capital expenditures, and cash flows over a multi-year period.
Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and impact the goodwill impairment assessment.
If we believe that one or more indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform a recoverability test by comparing the carrying amount of an asset or asset group to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and the eventual disposition of the asset or asset group.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 quarter we recognized impairment charges of $1,100 for fixed assets relating to our restructuring activities.
No other indicators of impairment were identified during the quarter ended September 30, 2019.


item4.txt
Pursuant to Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, management, under the direction of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures.
Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2019.
("QTI") on July 31, 2019, represents a material change in internal control over financial reporting since management’s last assessment of our internal control over financial reporting which was completed as of December 31, 2018.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On February 7, 2019 the Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program with a maximum dollar limit of $25 million.
This program authorizes us to make repurchases of our common stock from time to time on the open market, but does not obligate us to make repurchases, and has no expiration date.


