item1.txt
Beginning in January 2019, CTS adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" under the optional transition method, which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The lease liability is based on the present value of minimum lease payments discounted using our secured incremental borrowing rate at the date of adoption.
Existing deferred rent liabilities, resulting from our historical practice of using the straight line method for recognizing lease expense, were reclassified upon adoption to reduce the measurement of the lease assets.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which among other things, allows us to carry forward the historical accounting relating to lease identification and classification for existing leases at adoption.
Our leases are classified as operating leases and expense is recorded in a manner similar to historical accounting guidance.
We have also elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components for the majority of our leases and the election to keep leases with an initial term of 12 months or less off of the balance sheet.
Upon adoption we recorded a lease liability of $24,792 and a right of use asset of $22,066.
The decrease in contract liabilities as of March 31, 2019 is primarily due to the settlement of customer discounts and price concessions recognized at the beginning of the period.
Costs associated with exit and restructuring activities are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings as a separate component of Operating earnings.
The total restructuring liability related to severance and other one-time benefit arrangements under the June 2016 Plan was $537 at March 31, 2019, and $668 at December 31, 2018.
The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to credit risk, which relates to the risk of nonperformance by a counterparty to the derivative contracts.
We manage our credit risk by entering into derivative contracts with only highly rated financial institutions and by using netting agreements.
We use forward contracts to mitigate currency risk related to a portion of our forecasted foreign currency revenues and costs.
The currency forward contracts are designed as cash flow hedges and are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was $12,357 at March 31, 2019.
Unrealized gains (losses) on hedges relate to interest rate swaps to convert our revolving credit facility's variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge our exposure to changes in exchange rates affecting certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies.
These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transactions occur, at which time amounts are reclassified into earnings.
Further information related to our derivative financial instruments is included in Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 16 – Fair Value Measurements.
Cumulative translation adjustments relate to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar.
We are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates.
This combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income.
Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency and the currency in which a transaction is denominated are foreign exchange transaction gains or losses.
Transaction gains for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were $474 and $1,996, respectively, which have been included in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
During 2015 and 2016, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”) granted a total of 350,000 performance-based stock option awards (“Performance-Based Option Awards”) for certain employees under the 2014 Plan, of which 275,000 remain outstanding after considering forfeitures.
The Performance-Based Option Awards have an exercise price of $18.37, a term of five years, and generally will become exercisable (provided the optionee remains employed by the Company or an affiliate) upon our attainment of at least $600,000 in revenues during any of our trailing four quarterly periods (as determined by the Committee) during the term.
for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, since the revenue target was not deemed likely to be attained based on our current forecast.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, liabilities of $158 and $300, respectively were included in Accrued liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We use interest rate swaps to convert our Revolving Credit Facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the effect of foreign currency changes on certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies.
The fair value of our interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges were measured using standard valuation models using market-based observable inputs over the contractual terms, including forward yield curves, among others.
Our long-term debt consists of the Revolving Credit Facility which is recorded at its carrying value.
The fair value of long-term debt approximates carrying value and was determined by valuing a similar hypothetical coupon bond and attributing that value to our long-term debt under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Our effective income tax rate was 20.0% and 24.5% in the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared with the same period in 2018, was primarily attributed to tax benefits recorded upon vesting of restricted stock units.
The first quarter 2019 tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to the aforementioned tax benefits recorded upon vesting of restricted stock units.
Operating lease liabilities represent the present value of lease payments over the lease term, discounted using an estimate of our secured incremental borrowing rate because none of our leases contain a rate implicit in the lease arrangement.
The operating lease assets and liabilities are adjusted to include the impact of any lease incentives and non-lease components.
We have elected not to record leases with an initial term of 12 months or less on the balance sheet and instead recognize those lease payments on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2018-14, "Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General." This ASU modifies the disclosure requirements for defined benefit and other postretirement plans.
This ASU eliminates certain disclosures associated with accumulated other comprehensive income, plan assets, related parties, and the effects of interest rate basis point changes on assumed health care costs; while other disclosures have been added to address significant gains and losses related to changes in benefit obligations.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020 and for interim periods therein with early adoption permitted.
This ASU will impact our financial statement disclosures but will not have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
This ASU is meant to improve the accounting for the income tax effect of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
This ASU will now require companies to recognize the income tax effect of an intra-entity asset transfer (other than inventory) when the transaction occurs.
Early adoption is permitted and is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption.


item2.txt
Sales were $117,625 in the first quarter of 2019, an increase of $4,095 or 3.6% from the first quarter of 2018.
Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by $1,771 year-over-year due to the U.S. Dollar appreciating compared to the Chinese Renminbi and Euro and relating mostly to sales of products to the transportation end market.
Research and development expenses were $6,791 or 5.8% of sales in the first quarter of 2019 compared to $6,507 or 5.7% of sales in the comparable quarter of 2018.
Restructuring charges were $2,084 or 1.8% of sales in the first quarter of 2019.
Restructuring charges were $1,195 or 1.1% of sales in the first quarter of 2018.
Operating earnings were $14,218 or 12.1% of sales in the first quarter of 2019 compared to operating earnings of $13,359 or 11.8% of sales in the first quarter of 2018.
Other income in the first quarter of 2019 was principally driven by foreign currency translation gains, mainly due to the depreciation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Chinese Renminbi during the quarter, which was partially offset by pension expense.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared with the same period in 2018, was primarily attributed to tax benefits recorded upon vesting of restricted stock units.
The decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $225 was primarily driven by capital expenditures of $5,325, taxes paid on behalf of equity award participants of $2,637, dividends paid of $1,310 and treasury stock purchases of $849, which were partially offset by cash generated from operating activities of $9,593.
Total debt as a percentage of total capitalization, defined as long-term debt as a percentage of total debt and shareholders' equity, was 11.4% at March 31, 2019, compared to 11.7% at December 31, 2018.
Components of net cash provided by operating activities included net earnings of $11,419, depreciation and amortization expense of $5,924, other net non-cash items of $3,395, and a net cash outflow from changes in assets and liabilities of $11,145.
In the third quarter of 2016, we entered into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods August 2017 to August 2020.
We have historically funded our capital and operating needs primarily through cash flows from operating activities, supported by available credit under our Revolving Credit Facility.
We believe that cash flows from operating activities and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months.
We evaluate our warranty obligations at least quarterly and adjust our accruals if it is probable that future costs will be different than our current reserve.
Over the last three years, product warranty reserves have ranged from 0.5% to 2.4% of total sales.
We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering all facts and circumstances surrounding any outstanding quality claims and our historical experience selling our products to our customers.
We reserve for estimated credit losses based on historical experience and specific customer collection issues.
Actuarial assumptions are used in determining pension income and expense and our pension benefit obligation.
We utilize actuaries from consulting companies in each applicable country to develop our discount rates that match high-quality bonds currently available and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension benefit in order to provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the accumulated benefits when due.
After considering the recommendations of our actuaries, we have assumed a discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and a rate of compensation increase in determining our annual pension income and expense and the projected benefit obligation.
We have the option to perform a qualitative assessment (commonly referred to as "step zero" test) to determine whether further quantitative analysis for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets is necessary.
The qualitative assessment includes a review of macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, internal cost factors, and our own overall financial and share price performance, among other factors.
If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances we determine that it is not more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we do not need to perform a quantitative analysis.
If a quantitative assessment is required, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of discounted cash flow analysis and market-based valuation methodologies.
Determining fair value using a quantitative approach requires significant judgment, including judgments about projected revenues, operating expenses, working capital investment, capital expenditures, and cash flows over a multi-year period.
The discount rate applied to our forecasts of future cash flows is based on our estimated weighted average cost of capital.
In assessing the reasonableness of our determined fair values, we evaluate our results against our market capitalization.
Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and impact the goodwill impairment assessment.
If we believe that one or more indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform a recoverability test by comparing the carrying amount of an asset or asset group to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and the eventual disposition of the asset or asset group.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value.
During the first quarter we recognized impairment charges of $854 related to the June 2016 Restructuring Plan.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On February 7, 2019 the Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program with a maximum dollar limit of $25 million.
This program authorizes us to make repurchases of our common stock from time to time on the open market, but does not obligate us to make repurchases, and has no expiration date.


