item1.txt
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)".
The guidance in this ASU affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of nonfinancial assets unless those contracts are within the scope of other standards (for example, insurance contracts or lease contracts).
Beginning in January 2018, CTS adopted the provisions of Topic 606 under the modified retrospective method, which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings on the date of adoption.
Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur.
The increase in contract liabilities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 is primarily due to net increases in estimated future discounts and price concessions, offset by net settlements of products sold with rights of return.
The total restructuring liability related to severance and other one-time benefit arrangements under the June 2016 Plan was $1,279 at March 31, 2018, and $1,460 at December 31, 2017.
In the opinion of management, based upon presently available information relating to such matters, adequate provision for probable and estimable costs have been recorded.
These costs are included in interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to credit risk, which relates to the risk of nonperformance by a counterparty to the derivative contracts.
We manage our credit risk by entering into derivative contracts with only highly rated financial institutions and by using netting agreements.
In January of 2016, we began using forward contracts to mitigate currency risk related to a portion of our forecasted foreign currency revenues and costs.
The currency forward contracts are designed as cash flow hedges and are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
The effective portion of derivative gains and losses are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged transaction affects earnings upon settlement, at which time they are reclassified to cost of goods sold or net sales.
Ineffectiveness is recorded in other income (expense) in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
If it becomes probable that an anticipated transaction that is hedged will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period, we reclassify the gains or losses related to that hedge from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to other income (expense).
At March 31, 2018, we had a net unrealized gain of $37 in accumulated other comprehensive loss, of which $34 is expected to be reclassified to income within the next 12 months.
The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was $25.2 million at March 31, 2018.
In the second quarter of 2012, CTS entered into four separate interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017.
In the third quarter of 2012, we entered into four additional interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $25,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017.
In the third quarter of 2016, we entered into three additional interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods August 2017 to August 2020.
The Company has elected to net its foreign currency derivative assets and liabilities in the balance sheet in accordance with ASC 210-20 (Balance Sheet, Offsetting).
Unrealized gains (losses) on hedges relate to interest rate swaps to convert the revolving credit facility's variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge our exposure to changes in exchange rates affecting certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies.
These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transactions occur, at which time amounts are reclassified into earnings.
Further information related to CTS’ derivative financial instruments is included in Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 16 – Fair Value Measurements.
We are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates.
This combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustment component of other comprehensive (loss) income.
Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency and the currency in which a transaction is denominated are foreign exchange transaction gains or losses.
Transaction gains for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 were $1,996 and $395, respectively, which have been included in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
During 2015 and 2016, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”) granted a total of 350,000 performance-based stock option awards (“Performance-Based Option Awards”) for certain employees under the 2014 Plan, of which 295,000 remain outstanding after considering forfeitures.
The Performance-Based Option Awards have an exercise price of $18.37, a term of five years, and generally will become exercisable (provided the optionee remains employed by the Company or an affiliate) upon our attainment of at least $600,000 in revenues during any of our trailing four quarterly periods (as determined by the Committee) during the term.
We have not recognized any expense on these Performance-Based Option Awards for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, since the revenue target was not deemed likely to be attained based on our current forecast.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, liabilities of $127 and $241, respectively were included in Accrued liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We use interest rate swaps to convert our Revolving Credit Facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the effect of foreign currency changes on certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies.
The fair value of our interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges were measured using standard valuation models using market-based observable inputs over the contractual terms, including forward yield curves, among others.
Our long-term debt consists of the Revolving Credit Facility which is recorded at its carrying value.
The fair value of long-term debt approximates carrying value and was determined by valuing a similar hypothetical coupon bond and attributing that value to our long-term debt under the Revolving Credit Facility.
This ASU is meant to improve the accounting for the income tax effect of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
This ASU will now require companies to recognize the income tax effect of an intra-entity asset transfer (other than inventory) when the transaction occurs.
This ASU is effective for public companies, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual reporting periods.
We adopted this ASU as of January 1, 2018 and it did not have an impact on our financial statements.
The ASU requires companies to record an asset and liability on the balance sheet for leases that were formerly designated as operating leases as well as leases designated as financing leases.
The liability recorded for a lease is meant to recognize the lease payments and the asset as a right to use the underlying asset for the lease, including optional periods if it is reasonably certain the option will be exercised.
If a lease term is less than twelve months, a company is allowed to elect not to record the asset and liability.
Expense related to these leases are to be amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected term of the lease.
Additionally, the provisions of this ASU provide additional guidance on separating lease terms from maintenance and other type of provisions that provide a good or service, accounting for sale-leaseback provisions, and leveraged leases.
The provisions of this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those periods.


item2.txt
Sales were $113,530 in the first quarter of 2018, an increase of $13,376 or 13.4% from the first quarter of 2017.
Changes in foreign exchange rates increased sales by $2,751 year-over-year due to the U.S. Dollar depreciating compared to the Euro and Chinese Renminbi and relating mostly to sales of automotive products.
Gross margin as a percent of sales was 33.9% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 34.2% in the first quarter of 2017.
Research and development expenses were $6,507 or 5.7% of sales in the first quarter of 2018 compared to $6,003 or 6.0% of sales in the comparable quarter of 2017.
Restructuring charges were $1,195 or 1.1% of sales in the first quarter of 2018.
Restructuring charges were $777 or 0.8% of sales in the first quarter of 2017.
Operating earnings were $13,359 or 11.8% of sales in the first quarter of 2018 compared to operating earnings of $12,196 or 12.2% of sales in the comparable quarter of 2017 as a result of the items discussed above.
Our effective income tax rate was 24.5% and 30.6% in the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared with the same period in 2017, was primarily attributed to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent effective January 1, 2018 and additional tax expense of $241 associated with measurement period adjustments to provisional amounts recorded in the prior year as allowed for under the guidance issued in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118.
The increase in cash and cash equivalents of $7,811 was primarily driven by cash generated from operating activities of $20,154, which was partially offset by capital expenditures of $6,912, net long-term debt payments of $2,300, taxes paid on behalf of employees for equity awards of $1,423, and dividends paid of $1,318.
Total debt as a percentage of total capitalization, defined as the sum of notes payable and long-term debt as a percentage of total debt and shareholders' equity, was 17.2% at March 31, 2018, compared to 18.2% at December 31, 2017.
Components of net cash provided by operating activities included net earnings of $11,548, depreciation and amortization expense of $5,483, other net non-cash items of $2,264, and the net cash inflow from changes in assets and liabilities of $859.
We use interest rate swaps to convert the Revolving Credit Facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate.
In the second quarter of 2012, we entered into four separate interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017.
In the third quarter of 2012, we entered into four additional interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $25,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017.
In the third quarter of 2016, we entered into three additional forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods August 2017 to August 2020.
The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.
We have historically funded our capital and operating needs primarily through cash flows from operating activities, supported by available credit under our Revolving Credit Facility.
We believe that cash flows from operating activities and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months.
We evaluate our warranty obligations at least quarterly and adjust our accruals if it is probable that future costs will be different than our current reserve.
Actuarial assumptions are used in determining pension income and expense and our pension benefit obligation.
We utilize actuaries from consulting companies in each applicable country to develop our discount rates that match high-quality bonds currently available and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension benefit in order to provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the accumulated benefits when due.
After considering the recommendations of our actuaries, we have assumed a discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and a rate of compensation increase in determining our annual pension income and expense and the projected benefit obligation.
During the fourth quarter of each year, we review our actuarial assumptions in light of current economic factors to determine if the assumptions need to be adjusted.
The test involves comparing the fair values of our reporting units with their carrying values.
We recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, but only to the extent of goodwill recognized.
Under the "Income Approach — Discounted Cash Flow Method", the key assumptions include sales, cost of sales, and operating expense projections through the year 2021.
These assumptions were determined by management utilizing our internal operating plan and assuming growth rates for revenues, operating expenses, and gross margin assumptions.
If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, we perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount of impairment loss, if any.
This involves comparing the implied fair value of the affected reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying value of that goodwill.
If we believe that one or more indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform a recoverability test by comparing the carrying amount of an asset or asset group to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and the eventual disposition of the asset or asset group.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value.


part2.txt
Legal Proceedings
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On April 27, 2015, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized an expansion to its repurchase program by authorizing the purchase of an additional $25 million dollars of its common stock in the open market.
As shown in the following table, there were no stock repurchases during the quarter ended March 31, 2018.


