item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 28, 2018 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
These unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2018 (2018 Form 10-K).
Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer’s ability to meet its financial obligation to Applied or its payment trends, may require Applied to further adjust its estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to Applied.
Applied determines revenue recognition through the following five steps; (1) identification of the contract(s) with customers, (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determination of the transaction price, (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied.
Applied generally estimates the standalone selling price of a distinct performance obligation based on historical cost plus an appropriate margin.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, Applied allocates the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation using the relative standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
Applied recognizes revenue from equipment and spares parts at a point in time when Applied has satisfied its performance obligation by transferring control of the goods to the customer which typically occurs at shipment or delivery.
The adoption of this guidance resulted in reclassification of other components of net benefit costs outside of income from operations and did not have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the full retrospective method, which required restating each prior reporting period presented.
Applied’s financial assets are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, except for equity investments in privately-held companies.
Applied’s nonfinancial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
Applied’s investments consist primarily of debt securities that are classified as available-for-sale and recorded at their fair values.
In determining the fair value of investments, Applied uses pricing information from pricing services that value securities based on quoted market prices and models that utilize observable market inputs.
In the event a fair value estimate is unavailable from a pricing service, Applied generally obtains non-binding price quotes from brokers.
Applied then reviews the information provided by the pricing services or brokers to determine the fair value of its short-term and long-term investments.
As of April 28, 2019, substantially all of Applied’s available-for-sale, short-term and long-term investments were recognized at fair value that was determined based upon observable inputs.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-01, these investments are measured at fair value using quoted prices for identical assets in an active market and the changes in fair value of these equity investments are recognized in the consolidated statements of operations.
Applied adopted the standard using a modified retrospective transition method and reclassified the unrealized gains on these equity investments of $21 million to retained earnings as a cumulative-effect adjustment on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Applied did not have any financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements as of April 28, 2019 or October 28, 2018.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-01, Applied elected the measurement alternative, defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes on a prospective basis for certain equity investments without readily determinable fair values and is required to account for any subsequent observable changes in fair value within the statements of operations.
Applied adopted the guidance prospectively, effective October 29, 2018, and there was no impact to Applied’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
The carrying amounts of Applied’s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, notes payable - short term, and accounts payable and accrued expenses, approximate fair value due to their short maturities.
Applied uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts and currency option contracts, to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur typically within the next 24 months.
All of Applied’s derivative financial instruments are recorded at their fair value in other current assets or in accounts payable and accrued expenses.
During the six months ended April 28, 2019, Applied recognized revenue of approximately $539 million related to contract liabilities at October 28, 2018.
Included in finished goods inventory are $32 million as of April 28, 2019, and $19 million as of October 28, 2018, of newly-introduced systems at customer locations where the sales transaction did not meet Applied’s revenue recognition criteria as set forth in Note 1.
To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.
Under the two-step goodwill impairment test, Applied would in the first step compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value.
Applied determines the fair value of each of its reporting units based on a weighting of income and market approaches.
If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.
As of April 28, 2019, Applied’s reporting units include Semiconductor Product Group and Imaging and Process Control Group, which combine to form the Semiconductor Systems reporting segment, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets.
During the six months ended April 28, 2019, the increase in goodwill was primarily due to acquisitions completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, which were not significant to Applied’s results of operations.
Applied evaluates long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable.
Applied assesses the fair value of the assets based on the amount of the undiscounted future cash flow that the assets are expected to generate and recognizes an impairment loss when estimated undiscounted future cash flow expected to result from the use of the asset, plus net proceeds expected from disposition of the asset, if any, are less than the carrying value of the asset.
When Applied identifies an impairment, Applied reduces the carrying value of the group of assets to comparable market values, when available and appropriate, or to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow approach.
Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.
As of April 28, 2019, Applied had $470 million in total unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to grants of share-based awards and shares issued under Applied’s ESPP, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years.
Segment operating income is determined based upon internal performance measures used by Applied’s chief operating decision-maker.
The following customers accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales for the six months ended April 28, 2019, and sales to these customers included products and services from multiple reportable segments.
The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.
The review compares the fair value for each of Applied’s reporting units to its associated carrying value, including goodwill.
Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include adverse industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, declines in the market price of Applied common stock, changes in Applied’s strategies or product portfolio, and restructuring activities.
Applied may be required to record future charges to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets is determined to exist.
As a public company with global operations, Applied is subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions, including those related to financial and other disclosures, accounting standards, corporate governance, intellectual property, tax, trade, antitrust, employment, immigration and travel regulations, privacy, and anti-corruption.


item2.txt
Applied continued to see growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.
For the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment, partially offset by an increase in services revenue.
The changes in net sales in all regions in the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment spending and customer and product mix.
The increase in net sales to customers in Taiwan, Japan and United States for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year was primarily due to increased investments in semiconductor manufacturing equipment.
The decrease in net sales to customers in Korea, China and Southeast Asia for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected a decrease in investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment.
Gross margin in the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the decrease in net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix.
Marketing and selling expenses increased slightly in the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in fiscal 2018 primarily due to additional headcount, partially offset by lower variable compensation expenses.
Interest expense in the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 increased slightly compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to higher interest expense related to accounts receivable sold during the three and six months ended April 28, 2019.
Applied completed the accounting for the Tax Act during the measurement period, which ended one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act. Accounting for the remeasurement of deferred tax assets was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, and the accounting for the transition tax was completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $71 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 for adjustments to the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act. Excluding the tax expense of $71 million, the effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was higher than the rate in the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to changes in the geographical composition of income which includes jurisdictions with differing tax rates.
The effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal 2019 was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $1.1 billion in the first half of fiscal 2018 for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act. Excluding the tax expense of $1.1 billion, the effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal 2019 was higher than the rate in the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $81 million in the first half of fiscal 2019 related to changes in uncertain tax positions and the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation in the first half of fiscal 2019 being $45 million less than in the same period in the prior fiscal year.
Industry conditions that affect Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services are primarily characterized by increases in semiconductor manufacturers’ wafer starts and continued strong utilization rates, growth of the installed base of equipment, growing service intensity of newer tools, and the Company’s ability to sell more comprehensive service agreements.
Net sales for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 increased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for services and legacy systems.
Operating income for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year increased due to higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount.
Operating margin for the three months ended April 28, 2019 decreased slightly compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in headcount to support revenue growth.
Net sales for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to lower customer investments in mobile and TV display manufacturing equipment.
Operating income and operating margin for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year, reflecting lower net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix.
Cash provided by operating activities decreased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower cash collections and higher payments to suppliers, offset by a lower change in inventory during the six months ended April 28, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year.
Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer’s ability to meet its financial obligation to Applied or its payment trends, may require Applied to further adjust its estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to Applied, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
The non-GAAP adjusted financial measures presented below are adjusted to exclude the impact of certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including certain items related to mergers and acquisitions; restructuring charges and any associated adjustments; impairments of assets, or investments; gain or loss on sale of strategic investments; tax effect of share-based compensation; certain income tax items and other discrete adjustments.


part2.txt
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
Increases in tariffs, additional taxes or other trade restrictions and retaliatory measures may impact end-user demand and customer investment in manufacturing equipment, increase our manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates.
If Applied does not accurately forecast, and allocate appropriate resources and investment towards addressing, key technology changes and inflections, successfully develop and commercialize products to meet demand for new technologies, and effectively address industry trends, its business and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
The failure to successfully implement enterprise resource planning and other information systems changes could adversely impact Applied’s business and results of operations.
Applied periodically implements new or enhanced enterprise resource planning and related information systems in order to better manage its business operations, align its global organizations and enable future growth.
Implementation of new business processes and information systems requires the commitment of significant personnel, training and financial resources, and entails risks to Applied’s business operations.
If Applied does not successfully implement enterprise resource planning and related information systems improvements, or if there are delays or difficulties in implementing these systems, Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or cost efficiencies, and may experience interruptions in service and operational difficulties, such as its ability to track orders, timely manufacture and ship products, project inventory requirements, effectively manage its supply chain and allocate human resources, aggregate financial data and report operating results, and otherwise effectively manage its business, all of which could result in quality issues, reputational harm, lost market and revenue opportunities, and otherwise adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
Violations of law, rules and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions, restrictions on Applied’s business, and damage to its reputation, and could have an adverse impact on its business operations, financial condition and results of operations.


