item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 29, 2017 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
Applied adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 prospectively to measurement of inventory after the effective date.
In the six months ended April 29, 2018, Applied recognized an excess tax benefit of $53 million in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, with early adoption permitted.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
The authoritative guidance will be effective for Applied in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a retrospective basis, with early adoption permitted.
The adoption of this guidance is only expected to result in reclassification of other components of net benefit costs outside of income from operations and is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Applied is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Applied will continue to complete its evaluation of the effect of this new guidance on Applied’s financial position, results of operations and its ongoing financial reporting, and its preliminary assessments are subject to change.
Applied’s financial assets are measured and recorded at fair value, except for equity investments in privately-held companies.
Applied’s nonfinancial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
In determining the fair value of investments, Applied uses pricing information from pricing services that value securities based on quoted market prices and models that utilize observable market inputs.
Applied then reviews the information provided by the pricing services or brokers to determine the fair value of its short-term and long-term investments.
As of April 29, 2018, substantially all of Applied’s available-for-sale, short-term and long-term investments were recognized at fair value that was determined based upon observable inputs.
Applied did not have any financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements as of April 29, 2018 or October 29, 2017.
If Applied determines that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, the investment will be written down to its estimated fair value based on available information, such as pricing in recent rounds of financing, current cash positions, earnings and cash flow forecasts, recent operational performance and any other readily available market data.
The carrying amounts of Applied’s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, notes payable - short term, and accounts payable and accrued expenses, approximate fair value due to their short maturities.
Applied uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts and currency option contracts, to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur typically within the next 24 months.
All of Applied’s derivative financial instruments are recorded at their fair value in other current assets or in accounts payable and accrued expenses.
To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.
Under the two-step goodwill impairment test, Applied would in the first step compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value.
Applied determines the fair value of each of its reporting units based on a weighting of income and market approaches.
If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.
As of April 29, 2018, Applied’s reporting units include Semiconductor Product Group and Imaging and Process Control Group, which combine to form the Semiconductor Systems reporting segment, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets.
Applied evaluates long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable.
Applied assesses the fair value of the assets based on the amount of the undiscounted future cash flow that the assets are expected to generate and recognizes an impairment loss when estimated undiscounted future cash flow expected to result from the use of the asset, plus net proceeds expected from disposition of the asset, if any, are less than the carrying value of the asset.
When Applied identifies an impairment, Applied reduces the carrying value of the group of assets to comparable market values, when available and appropriate, or to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow approach.
Applied evaluates the useful lives of its intangible assets each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances require revising the remaining period of amortization.
In addition, Applied reviews intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.
As of April 29, 2018, Applied had $447 million in total unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to grants of share-based awards and shares issued under Applied’s ESPP, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.7 years.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was higher than in the same period in the prior year primarily due to $71 million of income tax expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 related to adjustments in the transition tax and the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets under the Tax Act. Applied’s effective tax rates for the first half of fiscal 2018 and 2017 were 48.6 percent and 9.1 percent, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal 2018 was higher than in the same period in the prior year primarily due to $1.1 billion of income tax expense for the transition tax and the decrease in U.S. deferred tax assets under the Tax Act. This was partially offset by the recognition of a tax benefit of $53 million related to the adoption of authoritative guidance for share-based compensation, the effect of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate, and changes in the geographical composition of income.
The following customers accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales for the six months ended April 29, 2018, and sales to these customers included products and services from multiple reportable segments.
The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.
Applied is in the process of implementing new enterprise resource planning and related information systems in order to better manage its business operations, align its global organizations and enable future growth.
This implementation requires the commitment of significant personnel and financial resources, and entails risks to Applied’s business operations.
If Applied does not successfully implement new enterprise resource planning and related information systems, or if there are delays or difficulties in implementing these systems, Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or cost efficiencies, and may experience interruptions in service and operational difficulties, such as its ability to track orders, timely manufacture and ship products, project inventory requirements, effectively manage its supply chain and allocate human resources, aggregate financial data and report operating results, and otherwise effectively manage its business, all of which could result in quality issues, reputational harm, lost market and revenue opportunities, and otherwise adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
The review compares the fair value for each of Applied’s reporting units to its associated carrying value, including goodwill.
Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include adverse industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, declines in the market price of Applied common stock, changes in Applied’s strategies or product portfolio, and restructuring activities.
Applied may be required to record future charges to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets is determined to exist.
As a public company with global operations, Applied is subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, intellectual property, tax, trade, antitrust, employment, immigration and travel regulations, privacy, and anti-corruption.


item2.txt
For the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales increased primarily due to increased customer investments in all segments, with majority of the increases resulting from investments in semiconductor equipment.
The changes in net sales in all regions in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor equipment customer mix and increased spending in display manufacturing equipment and semiconductor spares and services.
The increase in net sales from customers in Korea, Japan, and Southeast Asia for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, primarily reflected increased investments in semiconductor equipment and changes in semiconductor equipment customer mix.
The increase in net sales from customers in China for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected increased investments in semiconductor equipment and display manufacturing equipment.
The decrease in net sales from customers in Taiwan for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected decreased investments in semiconductor equipment, partially offset by increased investments in display manufacturing equipment.
Gross margin in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the increase in net sales and favorable product mix and materials cost savings.
Interest and other income, net in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017 primarily driven by higher interest income from investments.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter was higher compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to $71 million of income tax expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 related to adjustments in the transition tax and the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets under the Tax Act. The effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal 2018 was higher than in the same period in the prior year primarily due to $1.1 billion of income tax expense for the transition tax and the decrease in U.S. deferred tax assets under the Tax Act. This was partially offset by the recognition of a tax benefit of $53 million related to the adoption of authoritative guidance for share-based compensation, the effect of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate, and changes in the geographical composition of income.
Demand for Applied Global Services’ service solutions are driven by Applied’s large and growing installed base of manufacturing systems, and customers’ needs to shorten ramp times, improve device performance and yield, and optimize factory output and operating costs.
Industry conditions that affect Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services are primarily characterized by increases in semiconductor manufacturers’ wafer starts and continued strong utilization rates, growth of the installed base of equipment, growing service intensity of newer tools, and the company’s ability to sell more comprehensive service agreements.
Net sales for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for spares and services.
Operating income and operating margin for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year increased due to higher net sales.
Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.
If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applied’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer’s ability to meet its financial obligation to Applied or its payment trends, may require Applied to further adjust its estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to Applied, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
If actual demand were to be substantially lower than estimated, additional adjustments for excess or obsolete inventory may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value.
Under the two-step goodwill impairment test, Applied would in the first step compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value.
If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
Under the income approach, Applied estimates the fair value based on discounted cash flow method.
The non-GAAP adjusted financial measures presented below are adjusted to exclude the impact of certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including certain items related to mergers and acquisitions; restructuring charges and any associated adjustments; impairments of assets, or investments; gain or loss on sale of strategic investments; tax effect of share-based compensation; certain income tax items and other discrete adjustments.
2Applied adopted the accounting standard related to share-based compensation (ASU 2016-09) in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, which resulted in $53 million tax benefit on a GAAP basis for the six months ended April 29, 2018; this benefit is being recognized ratably over the fiscal year on a non-GAAP basis.


part2.txt
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates.
If Applied does not accurately forecast, and allocate appropriate resources and investment towards addressing, key technology changes and inflections, successfully develop and commercialize products to meet demand for new technologies, and effectively address industry trends, its business and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, and associated internal investigations, may be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute, defend or conduct; divert management’s attention and other Applied resources; inhibit Applied’s ability to sell its products; result in adverse judgments for damages, injunctive relief, penalties and fines; and negatively affect Applied’s business.
The failure to successfully implement enterprise resource planning and other information systems changes could adversely impact Applied’s business and results of operations.
Applied is in the process of implementing new enterprise resource planning and related information systems in order to better manage its business operations, align its global organizations and enable future growth.
This implementation requires the commitment of significant personnel and financial resources, and entails risks to Applied’s business operations.
If Applied does not successfully implement new enterprise resource planning and related information systems, or if there are delays or difficulties in implementing these systems, Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or cost efficiencies, and may experience interruptions in service and operational difficulties, such as its ability to track orders, timely manufacture and ship products, project inventory requirements, effectively manage its supply chain and allocate human resources, aggregate financial data and report operating results, and otherwise effectively manage its business, all of which could result in quality issues, reputational harm, lost market and revenue opportunities, and otherwise adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include adverse industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, declines in the market price of Applied common stock, changes in Applied’s strategies or product portfolio, and restructuring activities.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with operating in jurisdictions with complex and changing tax laws.
These provisional estimates will be revised as information becomes available and guidance is issued by the Internal Revenue Service, and changes in Applied’s provision for income taxes and effective tax rates could have a material impact on Applied’s results of operations and financial condition.


