item1.txt
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim consolidated condensed financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Applied or the Company) included herein have been prepared on a basis consistent with the October 28, 2018 audited consolidated financial statements and include all material adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to fairly present the information set forth therein.
Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer’s ability to meet its financial obligation to Applied or its payment trends, may require Applied to further adjust its estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to Applied.
Applied determines revenue recognition through the following five steps; (1) identification of the contract(s) with customers, (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determination of the transaction price, (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied.
Applied’s service agreements are considered one performance obligation and may include multiple goods and services that we provide to the customer to deliver against a performance metric.
Applied generally estimates the standalone selling price of a distinct performance obligation based on historical cost plus an appropriate margin.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, Applied allocates the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation using the relative standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
Applied recognizes revenue from equipment and spares parts at a point in time when Applied has satisfied its performance obligation by transferring control of the goods to the customer which typically occurs at shipment or delivery.
The adoption of this guidance resulted in reclassification of other components of net benefit costs outside of income from operations and did not have a significant impact on Applied’s consolidated financial statements.
Potentially weighted dilutive securities attributable to outstanding stock options and restricted stock units are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share where the combined exercise price and average unamortized fair value are greater than the average market price of Applied common stock, and therefore their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.
Applied’s financial assets are measured and recorded at fair value, except for equity investments in privately-held companies.
Applied’s nonfinancial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
Applied’s investments consist primarily of debt securities that are classified as available-for-sale and recorded at their fair values.
In determining the fair value of investments, Applied uses pricing information from pricing services that value securities based on quoted market prices and models that utilize observable market inputs.
In the event a fair value estimate is unavailable from a pricing service, Applied generally obtains non-binding price quotes from brokers.
Applied then reviews the information provided by the pricing services or brokers to determine the fair value of its short-term and long-term investments.
As of January 27, 2019, substantially all of Applied’s available-for-sale, short-term and long-term investments were recognized at fair value that was determined based upon observable inputs.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-01, these investments are measured at fair value using quoted prices for identical assets in an active market and the changes in fair value of these equity investments are recognized in the consolidated statements of operations.
Applied did not have any financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements as of January 27, 2019 or October 28, 2018.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-01, Applied elected the measurement alternative, defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes on a prospective basis for certain equity investments without readily determinable fair values and is required to account for any subsequent observable changes in fair value within the statements of operations.
Applied adopted the guidance prospectively, effective October 29, 2018, and there was no impact to Applied’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
The carrying amounts of Applied’s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, notes payable - short term, and accounts payable and accrued expenses, approximate fair value due to their short maturities.
Applied uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts and currency option contracts, to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur typically within the next 24 months.
All of Applied’s derivative financial instruments are recorded at their fair value in other current assets or in accounts payable and accrued expenses.
Included in finished goods inventory are $8 million as of January 27, 2019, and $19 million as of October 28, 2018, of newly-introduced systems at customer locations where the sales transaction did not meet Applied’s revenue recognition criteria as set forth in Note 1.
To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.
Under the two-step goodwill impairment test, Applied would in the first step compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value.
Applied determines the fair value of each of its reporting units based on a weighting of income and market approaches.
If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.
As of January 27, 2019, Applied’s reporting units include Semiconductor Product Group and Imaging and Process Control Group, which combine to form the Semiconductor Systems reporting segment, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets.
Applied evaluates long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable.
Applied assesses the fair value of the assets based on the amount of the undiscounted future cash flow that the assets are expected to generate and recognizes an impairment loss when estimated undiscounted future cash flow expected to result from the use of the asset, plus net proceeds expected from disposition of the asset, if any, are less than the carrying value of the asset.
When Applied identifies an impairment, Applied reduces the carrying value of the group of assets to comparable market values, when available and appropriate, or to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow approach.
Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.
As of January 27, 2019, Applied had $514 million in total unrecognized compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to grants of share-based awards and shares issued under Applied’s ESPP, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.9 years.
Under the ESPP, substantially all employees may purchase Applied common stock through payroll deductions at a price equal to 85 percent of the lower of the fair market value of Applied common stock at the beginning or end of each 6-month purchase period, subject to certain limits.
Segment operating income is determined based upon internal performance measures used by Applied’s chief operating decision-maker.
The following customers accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales for the three months ended January 27, 2019, and sales to these customers included products and services from multiple reportable segments.
The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.
The review compares the fair value for each of Applied’s reporting units to its associated carrying value, including goodwill.
Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include adverse industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, declines in the market price of Applied common stock, changes in Applied’s strategies or product portfolio, and restructuring activities.
Applied’s valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and projections of future operating performance.
Applied may be required to record future charges to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets is determined to exist.
As a public company with global operations, Applied is subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions, including those related to financial and other disclosures, accounting standards, corporate governance, intellectual property, tax, trade, antitrust, employment, immigration and travel regulations, privacy, and anti-corruption.


item2.txt
Applied also continued to see strong growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.
For the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor equipment.
The changes in net sales in all regions in the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor equipment spending and customer and product mix.
The increase in net sales to customers in Japan, United States and Europe, for the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to increased investments in semiconductor equipment.
The decrease in net sales to customers in Korea for the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily reflected decrease in investments in semiconductor equipment.
Gross margin in the first three months of fiscal 2019 decreased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the decrease in net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix.
Marketing and selling expenses increased in the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in fiscal 2018 primarily due to additional headcount.
Applied completed the accounting for the Tax Act during the measurement period, which ended one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act, including the accounting for the remeasurement of deferred tax assets completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 and the accounting for the transition tax completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the tax expense of $1.0 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act, the effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was higher than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $58 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 related to changes in uncertain tax positions and due to the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 being $43 million less than in the same period in the prior fiscal year.
Industry conditions that affect Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services are primarily characterized by increases in semiconductor manufacturers’ wafer starts and continued strong utilization rates, growth of the installed base of equipment, growing service intensity of newer tools, and the company’s ability to sell more comprehensive service agreements.
Net sales for the three months ended January 27, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for services and legacy systems.
Operating income and operating margin for the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year increased due to higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount.
Net sales for the three months ended January 27, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher customer investments in TV display manufacturing equipment.
Operating income and operating margin for the three months ended January 27, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year, reflecting higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount.
Cash provided by operating activities decreased in the first three months of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower cash collections and higher payments to suppliers, offset by a lower change in inventory during the three months ended January 27, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year.
Applied did not discount promissory notes or utilize programs to discount letters of credit issued by customers during the three months ended January 27, 2019 or January 28, 2018.
Applied used $66 million of cash in investing activities during the three months ended January 27, 2019.
If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value.
The non-GAAP adjusted financial measures presented below are adjusted to exclude the impact of certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including certain items related to mergers and acquisitions; restructuring charges and any associated adjustments; impairments of assets, or investments; gain or loss on sale of strategic investments; tax effect of share-based compensation; certain income tax items and other discrete adjustments.


part2.txt
To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations.
If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
Increases in tariffs, additional taxes or other trade restrictions and retaliatory measures may impact end-user demand and customer investment in manufacturing equipment, increase our manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates.
If Applied does not accurately forecast, and allocate appropriate resources and investment towards addressing, key technology changes and inflections, successfully develop and commercialize products to meet demand for new technologies, and effectively address industry trends, its business and results of operations may be adversely impacted.
Applied is exposed to risks associated with operating in jurisdictions with complex and changing tax laws.
Applied’s ability to satisfy its debt obligations is dependent upon the results of its business operations and subject to other risks discussed in this section.
The failure to successfully implement enterprise resource planning and other information systems changes could adversely impact Applied’s business and results of operations.
Applied periodically implements new or enhanced enterprise resource planning and related information systems in order to better manage its business operations, align its global organizations and enable future growth.
Implementation of new business processes and information systems requires the commitment of significant personnel, training and financial resources, and entails risks to Applied’s business operations.
If Applied does not successfully implement enterprise resource planning and related information systems improvements, or if there are delays or difficulties in implementing these systems, Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or cost efficiencies, and may experience interruptions in service and operational difficulties, such as its ability to track orders, timely manufacture and ship products, project inventory requirements, effectively manage its supply chain and allocate human resources, aggregate financial data and report operating results, and otherwise effectively manage its business, all of which could result in quality issues, reputational harm, lost market and revenue opportunities, and otherwise adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
Violations of law, rules and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions, restrictions on Applied’s business, and damage to its reputation, and could have an adverse impact on its business operations, financial condition and results of operations.


