See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).  
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).  
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).  
See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).  
Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems. Our products are distributed through our own sales force and authorized dealers in the United States. We also sell to customers outside of the United States primarily through our Company offices in Canada, China, Europe, Mexico and Southeast Asia as well as through independent dealers and representatives. AstroNova, Inc. products are employed around the world in a wide range of aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation applications.  
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “AstroNova,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q refer to AstroNova, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.  
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.  
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.  
On February 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification “ASC” Topic 606),” which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.  
We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method and have applied the guidance to all contracts within the scope of ASC Topic 606 as of the February 1, 2018 adoption date. Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize the large majority of our revenue upon shipment, which is when the performance obligation, has been satisfied. Accordingly, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our revenue recognition and there was no cumulative effective adjustment as of February 1, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 606.  
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligation arrangements as well as the pattern of delivery for those services. 
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.  
The majority of our hardware products contain embedded operating systems and data management software which is included in the purchase price of the equipment. The software is deemed incidental to the systems as a whole as it is not sold or marketed separately and its production costs are minor compared to those of the hardware system. Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and are accounted for as a single performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to the customer.  
We may perform service at the request of the customer, generally for the repair and maintenance of products previously sold. These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9.0% of revenue for the period ended April 28, 2018. Revenue is recognized as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. We also provide service agreements on certain of our Product Identification equipment. Service agreements are purchased separately from the equipment and provide for the right to obtain service and maintenance on the equipment for a period of typically one to two years. Accordingly, revenue on these agreements is recognized over the term of the agreements. The portion of service agreement contracts that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue. 
We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time. Our contract liabilities, which represent billings in excess of revenue recognized, are related to advanced billings for purchased service agreements and extended warranties and were $301,000 and $367,000 at April 28, 2018 and January, 31, 2018, respectively, and are recorded as deferred revenue in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The decrease in the deferred revenue balance during the three months ended April 28, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $175,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.  
 estimated benefit term, which is currently estimated to be approximately 10 years. There has been no change in the Company’s accounting for these contracts as a result of the adoption ASC Topic 606. The balance of these contract assets at January 31, 2018 was $832,000 and was reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, amortization of these incremental direct costs was $9,000 and the balance of deferred incremental direct costs net of accumulated amortization at April 28, 2018 was $973,000 which is reported in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. This amount is expected to be amortized over its estimated remaining period of benefit, which we currently estimate to be approximately 8 years.  
On September 28, 2017, AstroNova, Inc. entered into an Asset Purchase and License Agreement (the “Honeywell Agreement”) with Honeywell International, Inc. to acquire an exclusive perpetual world-wide license to manufacture Honeywell’s narrow-format flight deck printers for two aircraft families along with certain inventory used in the manufacturing of the licensed printers. The purchase price consisted of an initial upfront payment of $14.6 million in cash. The Honeywell Agreement also provided for guaranteed minimum royalty payments of $15.0 million, to be paid to Honeywell over the next ten years, based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products. The royalty rates vary based on the year in which they are paid or earned and product sold or service provided, and range from single-digit to mid double-digit percentages of gross revenue.  
The minimum royalty payment obligation of $15.0 million was recorded at the present value of the minimum annual royalty payments using a present value factor of 2.8%, which is based on the estimated after tax cost of debt for similar companies. At April 28, 2018, the current portion of the royalty obligation to be paid over the next twelve months is $1.5 million and is reported as a current liability and the remainder of $11.4 million is reported as a long-term liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet. For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company incurred $0.5 million in excess royalty expense, which is included in cost of goods sold in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income for the three months ended April 28, 2018. A total of $0.9 million of excess royalty is payable at April 28, 2018 and reported as a current liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.  
In connection with the Honeywell Agreement, the Company also entered into a Transition Services Agreement (“TSA”) with Honeywell related to the transfer of the manufacturing and repair of the licensed printers from their current locations to AstroNova’s plant in West Warwick, Rhode Island. Subject to the completion of the terms of the TSA by Honeywell International, the Company may be required to make an additional payment of $0.4 million to acquire an additional repair facility revenue stream. At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company determined that this payment was probable and recorded a $0.4 million contingent liability which is included as a current liability in the condensed consolidated balance sheet at April 28, 2018. The additional $0.4 million TSA obligation was included as part of the Honeywell Agreement purchase price and recorded as an increase to the related intangible asset.  
Transaction costs incurred for this acquisition were $0.3 million and were included as part of the purchase price.  
The purchase price, including the initial payment, the minimum royalty payment obligation, transaction costs, and the subsequent TSA $0.4 million obligation, were allocated based on the relative fair value of the assets acquired. The fair value of the intangible assets acquired was estimated by applying the income approach. These fair value measurements are based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market and therefore represent a Level 3 measurement as defined in ASC 820, “Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure.” Key assumptions in estimating the fair value of the intangibles include (1) the remaining life of the intangibles based on the term of the Honeywell Asset Purchase and License Agreement of 10 years, (2) a range of annual earnings projections from $3.9 million – $5.4 million and (3) the Company’s internal rate of return of 21.0%.  
On February 1, 2017, our wholly-owned Danish subsidiary, ANI ApS, completed the acquisition of the issued and outstanding equity interests of TrojanLabel ApS (TrojanLabel). The purchase price of this acquisition was 62.9 million Danish Krone (approximately $9.1 million), net of cash acquired of 976,000 Danish Krone (approximately $0.1 million), of which 6.4 million Danish Krone (approximately $0.9 million) was placed in escrow to secure certain post-closing working capital adjustments and indemnification obligations of the sellers. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company settled the post-closing adjustments with TrojanLabel and recovered approximately 891,000 Danish Krone (approximately $145,000) of the amount held in escrow account, which was recognized as an adjustment to the allowance account for TrojanLabel receivables. The remaining escrow balance was retained by TrojanLabel.  
For the three months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, the diluted per share amounts do not include common equivalent shares outstanding of 248,480 and 472,214, respectively, because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.  
There were no impairments to intangible assets during the periods ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017. With respect to the acquired intangibles included in the table above, amortization expense of $1,024,000 and $298,000, has been included in the condensed consolidated statements of income for the periods ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.  
During the three months ended April 28, 2018, we had one equity incentive plan pursuant to which we grant equity awards – the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 Plan”). Under this plan, the Company may grant incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, time or performance-based restricted stock units (RSUs), restricted stock awards (RSAs), and other stock-based awards to executives, key employees, directors and other eligible individuals. The 2015 Plan will expire in May 2025. Options granted to employees under the plan vest over four years and expire after ten years. The exercise price of each stock option is established at the discretion of the Compensation Committee; however, all options granted under the 2015 Plan must be issued at an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant. The 2015 Plan authorizes the issuance of up to 500,000 shares (subject to adjustment for stock dividends and stock splits), and at April 28, 2018, 99,284 shares were available for grant under the 2015 Plan.  
Under the 2015 Plan, each non-employee director receives an automatic annual grant of ten-year options to purchase 5,000 shares of stock upon the adjournment of each annual shareholders meeting. Each such option is exercisable at the fair market value of the Company’s common stock as of the grant date, and vests immediately prior to the next annual shareholders’ meeting.  
The Company has a Non-Employee Director Annual Compensation Program (the “Program”) under which each non-employee director receives an automatic grant of RSAs on the first business day of each fiscal quarter. Under the Program, the number of whole shares to be granted each quarter is equal to 25% of the number calculated by dividing the director compensation amount by the fair market value of the Company’s stock on such day. The director annual compensation amount was $65,000 in fiscal year 2018 and is $75,000 in fiscal year 2019. In addition, the Chairman of the Board receives RSAs with an aggregate value of $6,000, and the Chairs of the Audit and Compensation Committees each receive RSAs with an aggregate value of $4,000, also issued in quarterly installments and calculated in the same manner as the directors’ RSA grants. RSAs granted prior to March 30, 2017 became fully vested on the first anniversary of the date of grant. RSAs granted subsequent to March 30, 2017 become vested three months after the date of grant. A total of 8,542 and 7,233 shares were awarded to the non-employee directors as compensation under the Program in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
In March 2015 (fiscal year 2016), the Company granted 50,000 options and 537 RSAs to its Chief Executive Officer pursuant to an Equity Incentive Award Agreement dated as of November 24, 2014 (“CEO Equity Incentive Agreement”), and 35,000 options to other key employees.  
In May 2015 (fiscal year 2016), the Company granted an aggregate of 80,000 time-based and 155,000 performance-based RSUs (“2016 RSUs”) to certain officers of the Company. The time-based 2016 RSUs vest in four equal annual installments commencing on the first anniversary of the grant date. The performance-based 2016 RSUs vest over three years based upon the increase in revenue, if any, achieved each fiscal year relative to a three-year revenue increase goal. Performance-based 2016 RSUs that are earned based on organic revenue growth are fully vested when earned, while those earned based on revenue growth via acquisitions vest annually over a three-year period following the fiscal year in which the revenue growth occurs. Any performance-based 2016 RSUs that were not earned at the end of fiscal 2018 were forfeited. The expense for such shares was recognized in the fiscal year in which the results were achieved, however, the shares were not fully earned until approved by the Compensation Committee in the first quarter of the following fiscal year. Based upon revenue in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, 33,638, 9,025 and 15,810 shares of the performance based RSUs were earned in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  
In March 2016 (fiscal year 2017), the Company granted 50,000 options and 4,030 RSAs to its Chief Executive Officer pursuant to the CEO Equity Incentive Agreement.  
In May 2016 (fiscal year 2017) the Company granted 37,000 options to certain key employees. On August 1, 2016 (fiscal year 2017) the Company granted 5,000 options to its Chief Financial Officer.  
Subsequent to quarter end, at the Company’s annual meeting of shareholders held on June 4, 2018, the Company’s shareholders approved the AstroNova, Inc. 2018 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2018 Plan”). The 2018 Plan provides for, among other things, the issuance of awards with respect to up to 650,000 shares of the Company’s common stock, plus an additional number of shares equal to the number of shares subject to awards granted under the 2018 Plan or the 2015 Plan that are, following the effectiveness of the 2018 Plan, forfeited, cancelled, satisfied without the issuance of stock, otherwise terminated (other than by exercise), or, for shares of stock issued pursuant to any unvested award, reacquired by the Company at not more than the grantee’s purchase price (other than by exercise). Following the approval of the 2018 Plan at the Company’s annual meeting of shareholders, the Company will not grant new equity awards pursuant to the 2015 Plan.  
As of April 28, 2018, there was approximately $491,000 of unrecognized compensation expense related to RSUs and RSAs which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.2 years.  
AstroNova has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan allowing eligible employees to purchase shares of common stock at a 15% discount from fair value on the first or last day of an offering period, whichever is less. A total of 247,500 shares were reserved for issuance under this plan. During the three months ended April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, there were 1,216 and 1,507 shares, respectively, purchased under this plan. As of April 28, 2018, 37,991 shares remain available.  
The Company determines its estimated annual effective tax rate at the end of each interim period based on full-year forecasted pre-tax income and facts known at that time. The estimated annual effective tax rate is applied to the year-to-date pre-tax income at the end of each interim period with the cumulative effect of any changes in the estimated annual effective tax rate being recorded in the fiscal quarter in which the change is determined. The tax effect of significant unusual items is reflected in the period in which they occur.  
In connection with the Honeywell Purchase and License Agreement, on September 28, 2017, the Parties entered into a First Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender. The First Amendment amended the existing Credit Agreement to permit the Honeywell Asset Purchase and License Agreement and temporarily increased the amount available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility from $10.0 million to $15.0 million. The initial upfront payment of $14.6 million for the Honeywell Agreement was paid using borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility.  
On November 30, 2017, the Parties entered into a Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender. The Second Amendment provided for a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million, in addition to the revolving credit facility for the Company and the term loan previously borrowed by ANI ApS at the original closing under the Credit Agreement. The proceeds from the term loan were used to repay the entire $14.6 million principal balance of the revolving loans outstanding under the revolving credit facility. The principal amount of the revolving credit facility which had been temporarily increased to $15.0 million was reduced to $10.0 million effective upon the closing of the Second Amendment and the maturity date for the revolving credit facility was extended to November 30, 2022.  
On April 17, 2018, the Parties entered into a Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender. The Third Amendment provides that no “Immaterial Subsidiary” will be required to become a guarantor or securing party under (unless requested by the Lender during default) or have its equity pledged pursuant to the Credit Agreement. The Third Amendment defines “Immaterial Subsidiary” as any subsidiary of the Company with (a) consolidated total assets that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and (b) revenues that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries, as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter; provided that Immaterial Subsidiaries shall not account for, in the aggregate, more than 10% the of consolidated total assets or consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries.  
In connection with the Credit Agreement, AstroNova and ANI ApS entered into certain hedging arrangements with the Lender to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect of the term loans. Refer to Note 13, “Derivative Financial Instruments and Risk Management” for further information about these arrangements.  
The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement. The financial covenants consist of a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. The Credit Agreement contains limitations, in each case subject to various exceptions and thresholds, on the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to incur future indebtedness, to place liens on assets, to conduct mergers or acquisitions, to sell assets, to alter their capital structure, to make investments and loans, to change the nature of their business, and to prepay subordinated indebtedness. The Credit Agreement permits the Company to pay cash dividends on and repurchase shares of its common stock, subject to certain limitations.  
The obligations of ANI ApS in respect of the $9.2 million term loan are guaranteed by the Company and TrojanLabel. The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly-owned German subsidiary Astro-Med GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.  
As of April 28, 2018, there are no borrowings against the revolving credit facility and we believe the Company is in compliance with all of the covenants in the Credit Agreement.  
The Company has entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the floating-rate foreign currency-denominated term loan borrowing by our Danish Subsidiary and an interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk associated with the variable rate $15.0 million term loan borrowing by the Company. In accordance with the guidance in ASC 815 “Derivatives and Hedging”, both swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges of floating-rate borrowings.  
The cross-currency interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk by converting approximately $8.9 million of the Company’s floating-rate debt denominated in U.S. Dollars on our Danish subsidiary’s books to a fixed-rate debt denominated in Danish Krone for the term of the loan, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate and foreign currency exchange rate changes on future interest expense and principal repayments. This swap involves the receipt of floating rate amounts in U.S. Dollars in exchange for fixed-rate interest payments in Danish Krone, as well as exchanges of principal at the inception spot rate, over the life of the term loan. As of April 28, 2018, the total notional amount of the Company’s cross-currency interest rate swap was $7.4 million and is included in other long term liabilities in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet at its fair value amount of $1.2 million.  
The interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company on the $15.0 million term loan effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt for the next five years, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate changes on future interest expense. This swap involves the receipt of floating rate amounts in U.S. Dollars in exchange for fixed rate payments in U.S. dollars over the life of the term loan. As of April 28, 2018, the total notional amount of the Company’s interest rate swap was $13.5 million and is included in other assets in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance at its fair value amount of $0.2 million.  
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” ASU 2014-09 completes the joint effort by the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board to improve financial reporting by creating common revenue recognition guidance for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2014-09 applies to all companies that enter into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services. Under this guidance, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The Company adopted this guidance effective February 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note 4, “Revenue Recognition” for further details.  
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, “Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (Topic 230).” ASU 2016-15 addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice for certain cash receipts and cash payments. The Company adopted this guidance affective February 1, 2018. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” ASU 2016-02 supersedes current guidance related to accounting for leases and is intended to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring lessees to recognize assets and liabilities in the balance sheet for operating leases with lease terms greater than twelve months. The update also requires improved disclosures to help users of financial statements better understand the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows  
 arising from leases. ASU 2016-02 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years (Q1 fiscal 2020 for AstroNova), with early adoption permitted. At adoption, this update will be applied using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance on its consolidated financial statements.  
No other new accounting pronouncements, issued or effective during the first three months of the current year, have had or are expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
Fair value is applied to our financial assets and liabilities including money market funds, available for sale securities, derivative instruments and a contingent consideration liability relating to an earnout payment on future TrojanLabel operating results.  
For our money market funds and municipal obligations, we utilize the market approach to measure fair value. The market approach is based on using quoted prices for identical or similar assets.  
We also use the market approach to measure fair value of our derivative instruments. Derivative instruments were measured at fair value using readily observable market inputs, such as quotations on interest rates and foreign exchange rates, and is classified as Level 2 because they are an over-the-counter contract with a bank counterparty that is not traded in an active market.  
The fair value of the earnout liability incurred in connection with the Company’s acquisition of TrojanLabel was determined using the option approach methodology which includes using significant inputs that are not observable in the market and therefore classified as Level 3. Key assumptions in estimating the fair value of the contingent consideration liability included (1) the estimated earnout targets over the next seven years of $0.5 million-$1.4 million, (2) the probability of success (achievement of the various contingent events) from 0.0%-0.9% and (3) a risk-adjusted discount rate of approximately 2.68%-4.9% used to adjust the probability-weighted earnout payments to their present value. At each reporting period, the contingent consideration liability is recorded at its fair value with changes reflected in general and administrative expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. There was no change in the fair value of the earnout liability for the quarter ended April 28, 2018.  
The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion, is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current interest rates at which similar borrowings with the same maturities would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and is classified as Level 3.  
 Item 1A. Risk Factors  
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.  
