 Item 2.  
Product Identification (PI) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.  
Table of Contents 
Three Months Ended August 3, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended July 28, 2018  
Revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $33.5 million, representing a slight decrease compared to the previous year second quarter revenue of $33.8 million. Revenue through domestic channels for the second quarter of the current year was $20.6 million, an increase of 3.4% over the prior year’s second quarter. International revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $12.9 million, a 7.3% decrease over the previous year second quarter, and represents 38.3% of AstroNova’s second quarter revenue. Current year second quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.3 million.  
Other expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.2 million compared to $0.5 million in the second quarter of the prior year. Current quarter other expense primarily includes interest expense on debt and the revolving line of credit of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million, which were partially offset by $0.1 million of other income. Other expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 consists primarily of interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.3 million.  
Table of Contents 
The Company reported net income of $1.0 million or $0.13 per diluted share for the second quarter of the current year. On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year’s second quarter was $1.2 million or $0.17 per diluted share. Return on revenue was 2.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.5% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019.  
Six Months Ended August 3, 2019 vs. Six Months Ended July 28, 2018  
Revenue for the first six months of the current year was $69.6 million, representing a 6.7% increase compared to the previous year’s first six months of revenue of $65.3 million. Revenue through domestic channels for the first half of the current year was $42.6 million, an increase of 8.7% from prior year domestic revenue of $39.2 million. International revenue for the first six months of the current year was $27.0 million, a 3.5% increase from the previous year international revenue of $26.1 million. The current year’s first six months international revenue reflected an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.9 million.  
Supplies revenue in the first half of the current year was $37.8 million, representing a 9.3% increase over the prior year’s first six months revenue of $34.6 million. The current year increase in supplies revenue is due primarily to the increase in inkjet printer supplies and labels sales, tempered by lower thermal film and electrophotographic supplies revenue in the Product Identification segment.  
Current year first six months gross profit was $26.2 million, a 2.8% increase from prior year’s first six months gross profit of $25.5 million. The Company’s gross profit margin of 37.6% in the current year reflects a decrease from the prior year’s first six months gross profit margin of 39.1%. The lower gross profit margin for the current year compared to the prior year is primarily due to higher period costs and product mix.  
Table of Contents 
The Company reported net income of $2.7 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, for the first six months of the current year. On a comparable basis, net income for the first six months of the prior year was $2.0 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, which included $0.8 million of after-tax income, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates in the prior year’s first quarter for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement. In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share. Return on revenue was 3.8% for the first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.1% for the first six months of fiscal 2019.  
Segment Analysis  
Table of Contents 
Financial Condition and Liquidity  
Overview  
Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the second quarter were $4.5 million. During the second quarter of the current year, the Company borrowed an additional $2.0 million on its revolving credit facility. As of August 3, 2019, under its existing revolving credit facility, the Company has an outstanding balance of $3.5 million and $6.5 million remaining available for borrowing.  
The Company’s backlog increased 12.9% from year-end to $22.3 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2020.  
Indebtedness  
In fiscal 2018, the Company and the Company’s wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS, entered into a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Lender”), which, as amended, provides for a secured credit facility consisting of a term loan to ANI ApS in the principal amount of $9.2 million and a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million. The Credit Agreement also provides for a $10.0 million revolving credit facility for the Company.  
Both term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR rate plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.  
Table of Contents 
In connection with our entry into the Credit Agreement, ANI ApS entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect to the term loan. Under this combined arrangement, payments of principal and interest with respect to approximately $8.9 million of the principal of the term loan will be made in Danish Kroner, and interest on such principal amount will be payable at a fixed rate of 0.67% per annum for the entire term, subject only to potential changes based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio. Additionally, the Company entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk associated with its payments with respect to the $15.0 million term loan. Under this combined arrangement, interest will be payable at a fixed rate of 2.04% per annum for the entire term, plus an incremental margin of 1.0% to 1.5%, based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.  
The obligations of ANI ApS in respect of the $9.2 million term loan are guaranteed by the Company and TrojanLabel ApS. The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly owned German subsidiary, AstroNova GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.  
The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default.  
The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.  
As of August 3, 2019, the Company believes it is in compliance with all of the covenants in the Credit Agreement.  
The Company’s statements of cash flows for the six months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018 are included on page 7 of this report. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.0 million for the first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to cash used by operating activities of $1.7 million for the same period of the previous year. The increase in net cash provided by operations for the first six months of the current year is primarily due to the increase in net income, and a decrease in cash used for working capital. The combination of changes in accounts receivable, inventory, income taxes payable accounts payable and accrued expenses decreased cash by $5.6 million for the first six months of fiscal 2020, compared to a decrease of $7.4 million for the same period in fiscal 2019.  
The accounts receivable balance decreased to $20.6 million at the end of the second quarter compared to $23.5 million at year end. The $2.9 million decrease in the accounts receivable balance from year end is directly related to the decrease in sales for the second quarter of the current year as compared to fourth quarter sales in fiscal 2019.  
The net decreased cash position at August 3, 2019 primarily resulted from principal payments of long-term debt and the guaranteed royalty obligation of $2.8 million and $0.9 million, respectively; cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $1.5 million and dividends paid of $1.0 million, offset by increased cash provided by operations as discussed above and the current period borrowing on the Company’s existing revolving credit facility of $2.0 million.  
Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies  
Critical Accounting Policies, Commitments and Certain Other Matters  
Table of Contents 
Forward-Looking Statements  
 Item 2.  
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
 (a)  
Exhibits  
Table of Contents 
 32.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.  
Table of Contents 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  
