Yes x No oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company”, and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Yes o No xThere were 345,154,400 shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $0.00001, outstanding as of November 2, 2018. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017 has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements at that date. In the opinion of management, all adjustments, including normal recurring accruals, considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2018, or any future period. Restricted cash of $47.4 million and $54.2 million has been included within cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash when reconciling the beginning and ending total amounts, respectively, on the statement of cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, to conform to the current period presentation. The adoption did not have a material impact on the cash flow activity presented on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. See Note 3, Cash Equivalents and Investments, for a reconciliation of the cash balances within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows to the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.The preparation of the financial statements and related disclosures in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires the Company to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The adoption resulted in a reclassification of $5.7 million in income from accumulated other comprehensive loss to accumulated deficit as of the adoption date. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. 2018-03, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Financial Instruments - Overall, which changes how entities classify and measure equity investments and present changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured under the fair value option. The guidance also updates certain presentation and disclosure requirements. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for its equity securities with readily determinable fair values and the prospective method for its equity securities without readily determinable fair values, resulting in no impact to the opening accumulated deficit balance. The Company has elected to use the measurement alternative for its equity investments without readily determinable fair value, defined as cost adjusted for changes from observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer, less impairment. Under ASU 2014-09, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 under the modified retrospective approach, applying the amendments to prospective reporting periods. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under Topic 605. Rebates and incentives offered to distributors, which are earned when sales to end customers are completed, are estimated at the point of revenue recognition. Topic 606 requires the Company to estimate and account for variable consideration as a reduction of the transaction price. Topic 605 restricted the allocation of revenue that is contingent on future deliverables to current deliverables; however, Topic 606 removes this restriction. In addition, the nature of the performance obligations identified within a contract under Topic 606 as compared to Topic 605 will impact the allocation of the transaction price between product and services. The primary contract acquisition cost for the Company are sales commissions. Prior to January 1, 2018, the Company expensed sales commissions. The change required by Topic 606 resulted in the creation of an asset on January 1, 2018. The Company combines contracts with a customer if contracts are negotiated with a single commercial substance or contain price dependencies.Identify the performance obligations in the contract. Product performance obligations include hardware and software licenses and service performance obligations include maintenance, software post-contract support, training, and professional services. Certain software licenses and related post-contract support are combined into a single performance obligation when the maintenance updates are critical to the continued functionality of the software. Determine the transaction price. The transaction price for the Company’s contracts with its customers consists of both fixed and variable consideration provided it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty related to variable consideration is resolved. Fixed consideration includes amounts to be contractually billed to the customer while variable consideration includes estimates for rights of return, rebates, and price protection, which are based on historical sales returns and price protection credits, specific criteria outlined in rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. The Company generally invoices customers for hardware, software licenses and related maintenance arrangements at time of delivery, and professional services either upfront or upon meeting certain milestones. Customer invoices are generally due within 30 to 90 days after issuance. The Company’s contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the transfer of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year.Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices are based on multiple factors including, but not limited to historical discounting trends for products and services, pricing practices in different geographies and through different sales channels, gross margin objectives, internal costs, competitor pricing strategies, and industry technology lifecycles.Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation. Revenue for hardware and certain software licenses, are recognized at a point in time, which is generally upon shipment or delivery. Certain software licenses combined with post-contract support are recognized over time on a ratable basis over the term of the license. Revenue for maintenance and software post-contract support is recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term. Revenue from training and professional services is recognized over time as services are completed or ratably over the contractual period of generally one year or less.Deferred CommissionsSales commissions earned by the Company’s sales force are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. These costs are deferred and then amortized over a period of benefit which is typically over the term of the customer contracts as initial commission rates and renewal rates are the same. Amortization expense is included in sales and marketing expenses in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The new standard is to be applied on either a retrospective or prospective basis to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. The standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adoption on the Consolidated Financial Statements. This ASU is to be applied on a prospective basis for certain modified or new disclosure requirements, and all other amendments in the standard are to be applied on a retrospective basis. The new standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The new standard is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis and presentation and disclosure requirements will be applied on a prospective basis. This standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The ASU will not impact debt securities held at a discount. This standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim reporting periods within those annual reporting periods, and is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis with early adoption permitted. Under the amended guidance, a goodwill impairment charge will now be recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. This pronouncement is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years, using a modified retrospective adoption method. Early adoption is permitted. This ASU must be applied on a modified retrospective basis and is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company intends to adopt this standard effective January 1, 2019. The Company is on schedule to complete its evaluation of the impact to the financial statements, disclosures, processes, systems, and controls. The Company currently anticipates a material impact related to the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities for previously unrecognized leases on its Consolidated Balance Sheets, and does not expect this standard will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of September 30, 2018, the Company had 539 investments in unrealized loss positions. The gross unrealized losses related to these investments were primarily due to changes in market interest rates. The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such available-for-sale debt securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, there were no material gross realized gains or losses from available-for-sale debt securities. Realized gains or losses from sales or impairments were recognized in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Unrealized gains or losses were recognized in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Restricted investments are now designated as equity investments as described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. government agency securities—101.5—101.5—143.2—143.2U.S. The December 31, 2017 balance also includes $25.0 million related to the Company's Directors and Officers indemnification trust, which was subsequently terminated. The Company's derivative instruments are classified as Level 2, as they are not actively traded and are valued using pricing models that use observable market inputs. The Company's policy is to recognize asset or liability transfers among Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 at the beginning of the quarter in which a change in circumstances resulted in a transfer. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company had no transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy of its assets or liabilities measured at fair value. All of the Company's privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities are classified as Level 3 assets due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value. The Company estimates the fair value of its privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stock securities on a recurring basis using an analysis of the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, including recent financing activities and the investee's capital structure. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, there were no significant activities related to privately-held debt and redeemable preferred stocks securities. Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring BasisCertain of the Company's assets, including intangible assets and goodwill, are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, when they are deemed to be other-than temporarily impaired. There were no impairment charges recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.Equity investments without readily determinable fair value are measured at fair value, when they are deemed to be impaired or when there is an adjustment from observable price changes. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, there were no impairment charges or adjustments resulting from observable price changes for equity investments without readily determinable fair value. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had no liabilities required to be measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair ValueThe carrying amounts of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their short maturities. The Pulse Note is classified as a Level 3 asset due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value. Derivative InstrumentsThe Company uses derivatives to partially offset its market exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currencies and does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. These derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges. Execution of cash flow hedge derivatives typically occurs every month with maturities of eighteen months or less. As of September 30, 2018, an estimated $5.8 million of unrealized net loss within accumulated other comprehensive loss is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.The Company recognized an unrealized loss of $6.1 million and $8.6 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the effective portion of its derivative instruments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively; and an unrealized gain of $6.8 million and $17.6 million for the comparable periods in fiscal 2017, respectively. The Company reclassified a loss of $3.1 million and a gain of $5.8 million out of accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of revenues and operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. The amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of revenues and operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations were not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017.The ineffective portion of the Company's derivative instruments recognized in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations was not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.See Note 4, Fair Value Measurements, for the fair values of the Company's derivative instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.Non-Designated Derivatives The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the remeasurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. These foreign exchange forward contracts typically have maturities of approximately one to three months. The outstanding non-designated derivative instruments are carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives recorded in other expense, net within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations were not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, amortization expense for the deferred commissions was $31.2 million and $109.4 million, respectively. Subsequent to September 30, 2018, the Company amended the 2018 Restructuring Plan to further implement certain organizational changes resulting in a realignment of its workforce. The 2017 Restructuring Plan consisted of severance and contract termination costs that were recorded to restructuring charges in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recorded insignificant favorable adjustments for changes in previous estimates. The 2017 Restructuring Plan is substantially complete. Restructuring liabilities are reported within other accrued liabilities in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 14, Subsequent Event, for discussion of the Company's dividend declaration subsequent to September 30, 2018. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received an initial 23.3 million shares of the Company's common stock, based on the market value of the Company's common stock on the date of the transaction. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the ASR was completed and an additional 6.0 million shares were received from the financial institutions for a total repurchase of 29.3 million shares of the Company's common stock at a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share. The shares received with respect to the ASR were retired and accounted for as a reduction to stockholders' equity in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. $750.0 million represents the full amount of the ASR for which 23.3 million shares were received initially during the first quarter of 2018, and an additional 6.0 million shares were received at final settlement during the third quarter of 2018. Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The Company's 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time. The number of shares subject to market-based condition represents the aggregate maximum number of shares that may be issued pursuant to the award over its full term. The aggregate number of shares subject to market-based condition that would be issued if market criteria determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board are achieved at target is 0.1 million shares. Depending on achievement of such performance goals, the range of shares that could be issued under these awards is zero to 0.3 million shares. The aggregate number of shares subject to these PSAs that would be issued if performance goals determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board are achieved at target is 0.4 million shares. Depending on achievement of such performance goals, the range of shares that could be issued under these awards is zero to 0.7 million shares. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share of common stock on January 30, 2018, May 2, 2018, and July 26, 2018. These awards are contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones. A new 24-month offering period will commence every six months thereafter. The ESPP will continue in effect until February 25, 2028, unless terminated earlier under the provisions of the ESPP. SegmentsThe Company operates in one reportable segment. The recognition of $67.6 million in previously unrecognized tax benefits is due to a lapse in the federal statute of limitations relative to fiscal years 2010 through 2014. The reduction of expected tax liabilities of $33.2 million is a result of filing a change in accounting method for the tax recognition of deferred product revenue in the U.S. to better align with the financial statement recognition of such revenue.The Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and created a minimum tax on foreign earnings. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, the Company made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in the financial statements as of December 31, 2017. While the Company believes it has largely completed its analysis and related impacts of the Tax Act, the Company expects further guidance from revenue and taxation authorities in the fourth quarter of 2018, particularly from state authorities, which may impact the tax effects. As a result, the Company may make adjustments to the provisional amounts which may materially impact its provision for income taxes from continuing operations in the period in which the adjustments are made. The Company anticipates further guidance in the form of tax regulations to be issued by the U.S. Treasury in the fourth quarter of 2018, regarding the utilization of foreign tax credits relative to GILTI. Due to the complexities of the new provisions and the anticipated regulations referenced above, the Company is continuing to evaluate how the provisions will be accounted for under U.S. GAAP. The Company has not currently elected a method and will do so after completing its analysis of the GILTI provisions of the Tax Act depending on the analysis of the Company’s global income. Therefore, the Company has not recorded any potential deferred tax effects related to GILTI in its financial statements and has not yet made an accounting policy election regarding whether to record deferred taxes on GILTI or use the period cost method. The Company has, however, included an estimate of the current GILTI impact in its annual effective tax rate for 2018. The Company expects to complete the accounting during the measurement period.As of September 30, 2018, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $205.0 million, of which $183.3 million, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. The Company engages in continuous discussions and negotiations with tax authorities regarding tax matters in various jurisdictions. It is reasonably possible that the balance of unrecognized tax benefits could decrease up to $7.9 million within the next twelve months due to lapses of applicable statutes of limitations and the completion of tax review cycles in various tax jurisdictions. Commitments and ContingenciesCommitmentsExcept for the items below, there have been no material changes to the Company's commitments compared to the commitments described in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers In order to reduce manufacturing lead times and in the interest of having access to adequate component supply, the Company enters into agreements with contract manufacturers and certain suppliers to procure inventory based on the Company's requirements. A significant portion of the Company's purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm and non-cancelable commitments. These purchase commitments totaled $610.9 million as of September 30, 2018. The Company establishes a liability in connection with purchase commitments related to quantities in excess of its demand forecasts or obsolete materials charges for components purchased by the contract manufacturers based on the Company’s demand forecast or customer orders. As of September 30, 2018, the Company had accrued $23.6 million based on its estimate of such charges.GuaranteesThe Company enters into agreements with customers that contain indemnification provisions relating to potential situations where claims could be alleged that the Company’s products solely, or in combination with other third party products, infringe the intellectual property rights of a third-party. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company recorded $12.0 million and $20.4 million, respectively, for such indemnification obligations in other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. In cooperation with these investigations, the Company and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, with the assistance of outside counsel and other independent advisors, conducted a thorough internal investigation. As a result of its internal investigation, the Company made significant improvements in its internal controls and carried out a number of disciplinary actions. In the fourth quarter of 2017, the DOJ notified the Company that the DOJ has closed its investigation related to these matters without taking any action against the Company. The Company is continuing to fully cooperate with the SEC’s ongoing investigation, and based on the Company’s recent communications with the Staff of the SEC, the Company believes that it is likely that the Staff of the SEC will seek to bring an enforcement action against the Company. The Company believes it is probable that it could incur a loss and has established an estimated legal reserve of $12.0 million related to the ongoing SEC investigation; however, as discussions are continuing, there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of any final resolution of this matter.Other Litigations and InvestigationsIn addition to the investigations discussed above, the Company is involved in other investigations, disputes, litigations, and legal proceedings. The Company intends to aggressively defend itself in these matters, and while there can be no assurances and the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, the Company currently believes that none of these existing claims or proceedings are likely to have a material adverse effect on its financial position. In addition, the resolution of any intellectual property litigation may require the Company to make royalty payments, which could adversely affect gross margins in future periods. If any of those events were to occur, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. The actual liability in any such matters may be materially different from the Company's estimates, if any, which could result in the need to adjust the liability and record additional expenses.Note 14. Subsequent EventDividend DeclarationOn October 23, 2018, the Company announced that it had declared a cash dividend of $0.18 per share of common stock payable on December 26, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 5, 2018. 29Table of ContentsItem 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which we refer to as the Report, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Juniper Networks, Inc., which we refer to as “we,” “us,” "Juniper," or the “Company,” that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about our business, economic and market outlook, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “would,” “will,” “could,” “may,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, and these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Report under the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part II and elsewhere, and in other reports we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. While forward-looking statements are based on reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. In the course of operating our business, we routinely make decisions as to the timing of the payment of invoices, the collection of receivables, the manufacturing and shipment of products, the fulfillment of orders, the purchase of supplies, and the building of inventory and spare parts, among other matters. In making these decisions, we consider various factors, including contractual obligations, customer satisfaction, competition, internal and external financial targets and expectations, and financial planning objectives. Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.To aid in understanding our operating results for the periods covered by this Report, we have provided an executive overview, which includes a summary of our business and market environment along with a financial results and key performance metrics overview. These sections should be read in conjunction with the more detailed discussion and analysis of our condensed consolidated financial condition and results of operations in this Item 2, our “Risk Factors” section included in Item 1A of Part II of this Report, and our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, as well as our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, or Form 10-K.Business and Market EnvironmentJuniper designs, develops, and sells products and services for high-performance networks to enable customers to build scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks for their businesses, while achieving agility, efficiency and value through automation. We sell our high-performance network products and service offerings across routing, switching, and security technologies. In addition to our products, we offer our customers services, including maintenance and support, professional services, and education and training programs. We believe our silicon, systems, and software represent innovations that transform the economics and experience of networking, helping our customers achieve superior performance, greater choice, and flexibility, while reducing overall total cost of ownership. Further, our intent is to lead in the area of software solutions that simplify the operation of networks, and to allow our customers across our key verticals to deliver further value through their networks. We anticipate that our increased focus on software business models will result in an increase in software revenues as a percentage of total revenues over time. 30Table of ContentsWe are focused on and continue to see significant opportunities from the implementation of cloud architectures, such as large public and private data centers, as well as distributed cloud infrastructure, which resides in multiple, distributed data centers in order to place applications or services closer to end users, such as enabling security and "network-as-a-service. "We believe the network needs for our customers in our Service Provider, Cloud, and Enterprise verticals are converging, as these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and leveraging the cloud for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency. As these customers continue to grow, we believe their network architectures will continue to evolve. We believe our understanding of high performance networking technology and our strategy position us to capitalize on the industry transition to more automated, cost-efficient, scalable networks.We believe that certain large Cloud customers are transitioning their wide area networks from a scale-up to a scale-out architecture as they continue to add capacity. This has resulted in, and we expect this may continue to result in, a transition of these customers from purchasing our MX product family to our PTX product family. In addition, the slow pace of deployments at certain large Cloud customers has led to a near-term slowdown in our net revenues.Despite these ongoing architectural shifts and deployment delays, we remain confident in our competitive position and strong relationships with these strategic customers. Our overall strategy with our Cloud customers has not changed and we continue to execute against our innovation roadmap, which includes our plan to continue to grow our relevance and our business in the Cloud vertical. InnovationsDuring the third quarter of 2018, we continued to execute on our product strategy. We announced innovations across our PTX, QFX, and MX series of products. We believe the new technology will help Service Provider, Cloud, and Enterprise customers recalibrate network economics as they transition to 400G to lower cost-per-bit while keeping up with increasing bandwidth demands from next generation mobile network build-outs, or 5G, augmented and virtual reality, cloud, and 4K video production and distribution. We also announced Contrail Edge Cloud that allows Service Providers to cost effectively deploy new services to the space and power-constrained network edge. It virtualizes compute, storage, and networking resources efficiently and economically in lightweight edge environments such as central offices, base stations, hubs, and switching sites. Moreover, we recently introduced our software-based Contrail Enterprise Multicloud solution, which began shipping in third quarter of 2018. We are seeing strong customer adoption as our Enterprise customers migrate to multicloud solutions for end-to-end policy, control, and visibility.PartnershipsIn the third quarter of 2018, we also announced new and expanding partnerships with companies like Nutanix and Ericsson, which we expect will help strengthen our ability to capitalize on multicloud and 5G initiatives and drive our competitive advantage in the marketplace. TariffsThe United States, or U.S., government imposed a 10% tariff effective September 24, 2018, on certain goods imported from China, which affects certain products that we import. The tariff rate is scheduled to increase to 25% on January 1, 2019. The currently scheduled rate increase to 25% in 2019 could have a significant impact to our gross margins in the event we are unable to meaningfully mitigate the impact of the higher tariffs. For more information on the risk factors affecting our business, see the “Risk Factors” section of Item 1A of Part II of this Report. 31Table of ContentsFinancial Results and Key Performance Metrics OverviewOn January 1, 2018, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. The standard provides guidance for revenue recognition that superseded the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, which we refer to as Topic 605, and most industry specific guidance. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for further discussion on the adoption of Topic 606. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under Topic 605. This was partially offset by an increase in Enterprise revenues driven by demand for our new MX solutions. Of our top ten customers for the third quarter of 2018, five were Cloud, four were Service Provider, and one was in Enterprise. Of these customers, two were located outside of the U.S. Net revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower routing revenues from our Cloud vertical in the Americas, resulting from the networking architectural shifts and slower than expected pace of deployments. Excluding the impact of Topic 606, our service net revenues would have increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same periods in 2017, primarily due to strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts.For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the adoption of Topic 606 resulted in a decrease in revenue recognition of $4.6 million and $19.5 million, respectively, due to lower service revenues, partly offset by higher product revenues. Product revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were higher by $22.8 million and $80.7 million, respectively, under Topic 606, compared to Topic 605, primarily due to the impact of revenue allocation between products and services, timing of revenue recognition from sales to distributors, and variable consideration. Service revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were lower by $27.4 million and $100.2 million, respectively, under Topic 606, compared to Topic 605, primarily due to the impact of revenue allocation between products and services, and due to certain contractual clauses. The decrease was primarily due to higher cash collections from customers during the first nine months of 2017 related to service renewals invoiced during the fourth quarter of 2016, and an increase in cash paid during 2018 for income taxes, primarily due to the first of eight annual transition tax payments related to the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act. During the third quarter of 2018, the ASR was completed, and we received and retired an additional 6.0 million shares for a total repurchase of 29.3 million shares. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part 1 of this Report, for further discussion.Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are based on current facts, historical experience, and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances to determine reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our estimates for rights of return, rebates, and price protection are based on historical sales returns and price protection credits, specific criteria outlined in customer contracts or rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. Our estimates for expected penalties and other price concessions are based on historical trends and expectations regarding future incurrence. Changes in judgments with respect to these assumptions and estimates could impact the timing or amount of revenue recognition.Recent Accounting PronouncementsSee Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, for a full description of the recently adopted accounting standards and recent accounting standards not yet adopted, including the actual and expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. The year-over-year decrease in routing revenues was primarily due to our Cloud vertical in the Americas, and to a lesser extent, Service Provider in APAC. The decline was partially offset by strength in Enterprise in the Americas and EMEA, and to a lesser extent, the impact of the adoption of Topic 606. The decline in revenues from Cloud reflects the networking architectural shifts for certain large Cloud customers and a slower than expected pace of deployments. We remain confident in our competitive position with our strategic Cloud customers; however, the pace of deployments is difficult to predict. Enterprise benefited from a diverse base of customers and the increase in revenues was driven by demand for new solutions such as the MX 204 and MX 10003, which are contributing to our growth in new market segments. Revenues from our PTX and MX series of products declined year-over-year. For PTX, the decline was primarily due to the pace of deployments for certain large Cloud customers. Revenues from our EX series of products increased year-over-year. Revenues from our QFX series of products declined year-over-year and remain under pressure due to the timing of certain large scale Cloud deployments. Security net revenues increased year-over-year across all verticals as customers transitioned to our newer product offerings. Service net revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to the impact of Topic 606. Excluding the impact of Topic 606, our service net revenues would have increased year-over-year, primarily due to strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts. As a result of Topic 606, we expect that our service net revenues will see a decrease for the full year 2018 compared to 2017.Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017Product net revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to Cloud and Service Provider, impacting routing and switching in the Americas. The decrease in product revenues was partially offset by the impact of Topic 606 and growth in security.The decrease in routing and switching revenues in the Americas was due to the networking architectural shifts for certain large Cloud customers and slower than expected pace of deployments, resulting in lower revenues from our MX, PTX, and QFX product families. This was partially offset by higher revenues in EMEA, as well as strong growth in Enterprise.We experienced growth in revenues from our security business during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, across all verticals as customers transitioned to our newer product offerings. We expect that our security business will see year-over-year growth for the full year 2018.Service net revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to the impact of Topic 606. Additionally, our gross margins for the fourth quarter 2018 could be slightly impacted by the recently imposed China tariffs. While we plan to continue our efforts to attempt to mitigate the impact of tariffs, the currently scheduled rate increase to 25% in 2019 could have a significant impact to our gross margins in the event we are unable to meaningfully mitigate the impact of the tariffs. 36Table of ContentsThree Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017Product gross marginProduct gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to product mix, partially offset by the impact of Topic 606. We continue to undertake specific efforts to address certain factors impacting our product gross margin. 37Table of ContentsNine Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, total operating expenses decreased primarily due to lower restructuring charges from the 2018 Restructuring Plan initiated during the third quarter of 2018, compared to the 2017 Restructuring Plan. Marketing-related costs also declined year-over-year, due to a decrease in the number of marketing events held in 2018 compared to 2017. The recognition of $67.6 million in previously unrecognized tax benefits is due to a lapse in the federal statute of limitations relative to fiscal years 2010 through 2014. The reduction of expected tax liabilities of $33.2 million is a result of filing a change in accounting method for the tax recognition of deferred product revenue in the U.S. to better align with the financial statement recognition of such revenue. 38Table of ContentsThe Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017, introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and created a minimum tax on foreign earnings. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in the financial statements as of December 31, 2017. While we believe we have largely completed our analysis and related impacts of the Tax Act, we expect further guidance from revenue and taxation authorities in the fourth quarter of 2018, particularly from state authorities, which may impact the tax effects. As a result, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts which may materially impact our provision for income taxes from continuing operations in the period in which the adjustments are made. We will complete the accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act in the fourth quarter of 2018.The Tax Act also includes provisions to tax Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, or GILTI, of foreign subsidiaries in excess of a deemed return on their tangible assets. We anticipate further guidance in the form of tax regulations to be issued by the U.S. Treasury in the fourth quarter of 2018, regarding the utilization of foreign tax credits relative to GILTI. Due to the complexities of the new provisions and the anticipated regulations referenced above, we are continuing to evaluate how the provisions will be accounted for under U.S. GAAP. We have not currently elected a method and will do so after completing our analysis of the GILTI provisions of the Tax Act depending on the analysis of our global income. Therefore, we have not recorded any potential deferred tax effects related to GILTI in our financial statements and has not yet made an accounting policy election regarding whether to record deferred taxes on GILTI or use the period cost method. We have, however, included an estimate of the current GILTI impact in our annual effective tax rate for 2018. We expect to complete the accounting during the measurement period.As a result of recommendations by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, certain countries in EMEA and APAC have either enacted new corporate tax legislation or are considering enacting such legislation in the near future. We expect the effect of these reform measures to potentially impact long-standing tax principles, particularly in regards to transfer pricing. Consequently, we expect global tax authorities to increasingly challenge our cost sharing and other intercompany arrangements, and the related sourcing of taxable profits in global jurisdictions. We are continuing to hold discussions with the UK tax authorities regarding corporate tax reform legislation enacted by the UK.Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. See Item 1A of Part II, "Risk Factors" of this Report for a description of relevant risks which may adversely affect our results.Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our business primarily through our operating activities and the issuance of our short-term and long-term debt. We applied this provision on a retrospective basis to conform to the current-period presentation. The adoption did not have a material impact on the cash flow activity presented in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.Operating ActivitiesNet cash provided by operations decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017. The decrease was primarily due to higher cash collections from customers during the first nine months of 2017 related to service renewals invoiced during the fourth quarter of 2016, and an increase in cash paid during 2018 for income taxes, primarily due to the first of eight annual transition tax payments related to the Tax Act. These decreases in cash flows were partially offset by a decline in cash paid for personnel-related costs, principally as a result of a reduction in headcount and lower incentive compensation.Investing ActivitiesNet cash provided by investing activities increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017. The increase was primarily due to the liquidation of repatriated offshore investments to fund the accelerated share repurchase program discussed below.Financing ActivitiesNet cash used in financing activities increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017. The increase was primarily due to higher repurchases of our common stock, as a result of the accelerated share repurchase program described further below, and increases in payments of cash dividends.Capital ReturnIn January 2018, our Board of Directors, which we refer to as the Board, approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, which we refer to as the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program replaces the previous authorization approved by the Board in 2014. As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we entered into an ASR to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock. During the first quarter of 2018, we made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 23.3 million shares of our common stock based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction. During the third quarter of 2018, the ASR was completed and we received and retired an additional 6.0 million shares, based on volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share. The completion of the ASR resulted in a total repurchase of 29.3 million shares of our common stock. As of September 30, 2018, there was $1.3 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. Our 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time. See Note 8, Equity, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for further discussion of our share purchase program. 40Table of ContentsWe declared and paid cash dividends of $0.18 per share each quarter, totaling $187.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board or an authorized committee thereof. See Note 14, Subsequent Event, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for discussion of our dividend declaration subsequent to September 30, 2018. Revolving Credit FacilityWe have an unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire in 2019, which enables borrowings of up to $500.0 million, with the option, subject to the lenders' approval, to increase the amount of the credit facility by up to an additional $200.0 million. As of September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants and there were no amounts outstanding under our credit facility.Liquidity and Capital Resource RequirementsLiquidity and capital resources may be impacted by our operating activities as well as acquisitions, investments in strategic relationships, repurchases of additional shares of our common stock, and payment of cash dividends on our common stock. Following the enactment of the Tax Act, we repatriated approximately $2.5 billion of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments balance from outside of the U.S. as of September 30, 2018. We expect the new territorial tax system to provide us lower cost access to nearly all of our global free cash flow on an ongoing basis. Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. However, our future liquidity and capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned depending on many factors, including, but not limited to, our growth rate; the timing and amount we spend to support development efforts; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; the introduction of new and enhanced products and services; the costs to acquire or invest in businesses and technologies; an increase in manufacturing or component costs; and the risks and uncertainties detailed in the “Risk Factors” section of Item 1A of Part II of this Report. 41Table of ContentsItem 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskOur exposures to market risk have not changed materially since December 31, 2017. For quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, see Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, in our Form 10-K.Item 4. Based upon that evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered in this Report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.Changes in Internal Controls Over Financial ReportingThere were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the third quarter of 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 42Table of ContentsPART II — OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. Legal ProceedingsThe information set forth under the “Legal Proceedings” section in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.Item 1A. Risk FactorsFactors That May Affect Future ResultsInvestments in our securities involve significant risks. Even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. For example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter. In addition, while we may have backlog orders for products that have not shipped, we believe that our backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results for a number of reasons, including project delays, changes in project scope and the fact that our customers may cancel purchase orders or change delivery schedules without significant penalty. Furthermore, market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, rebates and discounting, increased component or logistics costs, issues with product quality, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. Such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term.As a result of these factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. In the past, our operating results have been below our guidance, our long-term financial model or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, and this may happen in the future, in which case the price of our common stock may decline and has declined in the past. 43Table of ContentsWe expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time, and the level of gross margins and operating margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable.We expect our product and service gross margins to vary, both in the near-term and in the long-term, and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, some of which have occurred and may occur in the future, including customer, vertical, product and geographic mix shifts, an increase or decrease in our software sales or services we provide, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, changes in the actions of our competitors or their pricing strategies, which may be difficult to predict and respond to, modifications to our pricing strategy in order to gain footprint in certain markets or with certain customers, currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products and services to our customers, increases in material, labor, logistics, warranty costs, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, issues with manufacturing or component availability, quality or efficiencies, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inaccurately forecasting product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products and enhancements or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. For example, in fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components. In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix. In fiscal year 2015, our margins increased compared to fiscal year 2014, as a result of higher restructuring and other charges recorded in 2014 but not in 2015, in connection with the restructuring plan we initiated in the first quarter of 2014. Failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.Further, we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. We expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all. A limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business. In addition, there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate. Any decrease in revenues from our customers or partners could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results.A material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. If our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may delay, suspend or indefinitely reduce or cancel their purchases of our products or other direct or indirect unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and IP infrastructure, and if the demand for network and IP systems does not continue to grow, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.A substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure IP infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of IP services. As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. For example, in recent quarters, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest Cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift. The duration of the delay is difficult to predict, in part because each Cloud customer will migrate their network architecture based on their own constraints. Such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues and gross margin for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results.Our revenues and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness or uncertainty, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings. Such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast revenues and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide accurate forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. More generally-speaking, economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. Furthermore, instability in the global markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. Our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. Therefore, fluctuations in revenue and gross margins could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margins from quarter to quarter. Uncertainty about future economic conditions also makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Conversely, in February 2017 and August 2018 we initiated the 2017 Restructuring Plan and the 2018 Restructuring Plan, respectively, to realign our workforce and increase operational efficiencies. These restructuring actions have included workforce reductions and contract terminations. As we assessed the performance of our operating results against our long-term operating goals and evaluated potential opportunities for improvement, the 2017 Restructuring Plan was expanded and additional restructuring charges were incurred in the fourth quarter of 2017 to further align our workforce. Similarly, the 2018 Restructuring Plan was expanded and additional restructuring charges are expected to be incurred in the fourth quarter of 2018 to further align our workforce. Some of our expenses are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. Rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 45Table of ContentsWe face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results.Competition is intense in the markets that we serve. In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, as well as companies such as Check Point, F5 Networks, and Fortinet. For example, in recent years, Nokia Corporation merged with Alcatel-Lucent, HPE acquired Aruba Networks, Cisco acquired Viptela, Symantec Corporation acquired Blue Coat Systems, and Dell acquired EMC, which further consolidated our market. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. In addition, some of our competitors have become more integrated, including through consolidation, and offer a broader range of products and services, which could make their solutions more attractive to our customers. Many of our competitors sell networking products as bundled solutions with other IT products, such as compute and storage systems. Our partners and resellers generally sell or resell competing products on a non-exclusive basis and consolidation could delay spending or require us to increase discounts to compete, which could also adversely affect our business.The long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter.A customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. As a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. In particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. Throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. Customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. Accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. This may make it difficult for investors to observe quarterly trends and may cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin on a quarterly basis.Due to the cost, complexity and custom nature of configurations required by our customers, we generally build our network equipment products as orders are received. The volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter remains unpredictable. If orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. In addition, services revenue accounts for a significant portion of our revenue, comprising 31%, 29%, and 27% of total revenue in fiscal year 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. We recognize professional services, support and maintenance revenue periodically over the term of the relevant service period. 46Table of ContentsThe introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. As a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. Consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of certain software products, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. Also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase such software or services revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from those software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable period.Additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and technology roadmap and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. As a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter.If we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products, product enhancements and business strategies that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available or strategies are not executed in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer.The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, continuous pricing pressures and a constantly evolving industry. We may not be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. For example, the move from traditional wide area network, or WAN, infrastructures towards software-defined WAN, or SD-WAN, has been receiving considerable attention. In our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of SD-WAN, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements. If we fail to anticipate market requirements or opportunities or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and services, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if we invest time, energy and resources in developing products for a market that doesn't develop, it could likewise significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products, enhancements or business strategies, there can be no assurance that new products, enhancements or business strategies will achieve widespread market acceptance.In recent years, we have announced a number of new products and enhancements to our hardware and software products across routing, switching and security. The success of our new products depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, prompt resolution of any defects or bugs in these products, our ability to support these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors and market acceptance of these products.The introduction of new software products is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business. We have also begun to disaggregate certain software from certain hardware products, such that customers would be able to purchase or license our hardware and software products independently, which we expect could in time enable our hardware to be deployed with third party networking applications and services and our software to be used with third party hardware. Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products. Such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Moreover, a significant portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including the possibility of import tariffs or regional conflicts. For example, the United States recently imposed a tariff on networking products imported from China; this includes certain products that we import into and sell within the United States. If we cannot mitigate the impact of the tariffs, the increased cost could translate into higher prices for customers, reduced customer demand or increased cost of goods sold. In addition, increased costs of production or delays in production caused by any relocation of contract manufacturing facilities could impact the global competitiveness of our products. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers, including for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages, quality issues or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future.We rely on single or limited sources for certain of our components. During periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. For example, we are in the process of working through some industry-wide supply constraints related to power management components. In addition, some components used in our networking solutions have in the past and may in the future experience extended lead times and higher pricing, given the demand in the market. Any future spike in growth in our business, the use of certain components we share in common with other companies, in IT spending or the economy in general, is likely to create greater short-term pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component inventories. If shortages or delays persist, we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build and deliver products in a timely manner, and our revenues, gross margins and customer relationships could suffer. Additionally, if certain components that we receive from our suppliers have defects or other quality issues, we may have to replace or repair such components, and we could be subject to claims based on warranty, product liability, epidemic or delivery failures that could lead to significant expenses. We maintain product liability insurance, but there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims. We also currently purchase numerous key components, including ASICs and other semiconductor chips, from single or limited sources and many of our component suppliers are concentrated in China and Korea. In addition, there has been consolidation among certain suppliers of our components. For example, GLOBALFOUNDRIES acquired IBM’s semiconductor manufacturing business, Avago Technologies Limited acquired Broadcom Corporation and Intel Corporation acquired Altera Corporation. Consolidation among suppliers can result in the reduction of the number of independent suppliers of components available to us, which could negatively impact our ability to access certain component parts or the prices we have to pay for such parts. Any disruptions to our supply chain could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity or otherwise adversely affect our business and result in increased costs. Such a disruption could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices, the imposition of regulations, quotas or embargoes on components, labor stoppages, transportation failures affecting the supply chain and shipment of materials and finished goods, third party interference in the integrity of the products sourced through the supply chain, the unavailability of raw materials, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, military conflicts, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility and other services.The development of alternate sources for components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. Also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. In the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. If we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.In addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. Failure to effectively manage the supply of components and products would adversely affect our business. If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business.We provide demand forecasts for our products to our contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers, who order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. If we overestimate our requirements, our original design or contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. For example, in certain prior quarters, our gross margins were reduced as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. In addition, some optical modules we use are experiencing faster product transitions than our other products, which increases the risk that we could have excess inventory of those modules. Conversely, lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time. This could increase costs or delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products, resulting in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues and could negatively impact customer satisfaction.System security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our and our customers’ proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price. In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. In addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. The growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including Juniper, have been and are increasingly subject to the threat of intrusions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors, including but not limited to nation states, criminal enterprises, and terrorist organizations, on an ongoing and regular basis. Despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches and may be vulnerable in the future to breach or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breached due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions. If any breach or attack compromises our networks, creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks or those of our customers could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and suffer reputational and financial harm. In addition, hardware, components and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs", vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks or expose us or our products to cyber attacks. This can be true even for “legacy” products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time. When vulnerabilities are discovered, we evaluate the risk, apply patches or take other remediation actions as required and notify customers and suppliers when appropriate. All of this requires significant time and attention from management and our employees. As a result of any actual or perceived breach of network security that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our overall reputation could be harmed. As a large, well known provider of networking products, cyber attackers may specifically target our products or attempt to imitate us or our products in order to compromise a network. Because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused. This could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions, which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. The economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure, because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the attacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint. Additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches. We rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM, Dimension Data and NEC Corporation. The majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors’ products, and some of which sell their own competing products. Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. The loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. For example, in 2016, Nokia Corporation merged with Alcatel-Lucent, a competitor of ours, and in 2015 Cisco announced a partnership with Ericsson, which is one of our existing partners. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer.In addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues at the time we sell products to our distributors. If these sales are made based on inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted.We are also vulnerable to third parties who illegally distribute or sell counterfeit, stolen or unfit versions of our products, which has happened in the past and could happen in the future. Such sales could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. Further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. As a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. We have previously entered into OEM agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. These types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. Our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. We also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. To the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 50Table of ContentsOur ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, data center providers or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. If our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed.Some of our business processes depend upon our IT systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces between the two. For example, we are in the process of further consolidating our on-site data centers to the cloud and to off-site facilities that are hosted and controlled by third-parties. These cloud providers and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error, cybersecurity attacks and similar events. In addition, because we lease our cloud storage space and off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. If we have issues receiving and processing data, this may delay our ability to provide products and services to our customers and damage our business. We also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. If those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. Integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders.We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. For example, in 2017 we acquired Cyphort Inc. and in 2016, we acquired AppFormix Inc., Aurrion, Inc. and BTI Systems Inc. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. The integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions. As we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or impact the amount of revenues to be recognized.Telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers. For example, our customers France Telecom-Orange and Deutsche Telekom AG have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers. As we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result, these customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. These additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may impact the amount of revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement, as well as securities laws. As noted in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report, under the heading of “Legal Proceedings”, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, is conducting, and the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, was previously conducting, investigations into possible violations by the Company of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, in a number of countries. The Company’s Audit Committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, conducted a thorough internal review of possible violations of the FCPA, and the Company made improvements in its internal controls and carried out a number of disciplinary actions. The Company is continuing to fully cooperate with the SEC’s ongoing investigation, and based on the recent communications with the Staff of the SEC, the Company believes it is likely that the Staff of the SEC will seek to bring an enforcement action against the Company. The Company believes it is probable that it could incur a loss and has established an estimated legal reserve of $12.0 million related to the ongoing SEC investigation. Litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain. We therefore cannot predict the duration, scope, outcome or consequences of litigation and government investigations. In connection with any government investigations, including those in which we are currently involved as described above, if the government takes action against us or we agree to settle the matter, we may be required to pay substantial fines and incur other sanctions, which may be material, and suffer reputational harm. The unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.We are a party to litigation and claims regarding intellectual property rights, resolution of which may be time-consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing.Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. In addition, increased patent litigation brought by non-practicing entities in recent years may result, and in some cases has resulted, in our customers requesting or requiring us to absorb a portion of the costs of such litigation or providing broader indemnification for litigation, each of which could increase our expenses and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies, enter into license agreements, or cease engaging in certain activities or offering certain products or services. Furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us or anyone we are required to indemnify by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, if we fail to develop non-infringing technology, if we incorporate infringing technology in our products or if we license required proprietary rights at material expense, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Regulation of our industry in general and the telecommunications industry in particular could harm our operating results and future prospects.We are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas. For example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet country-specific safety, conformance or security certification criteria or in-country test requirements. Other regulations that may negatively impact our business include local content or local manufacturing requirements most commonly applicable for government, state-owned enterprise or regulated industry procurements. These types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business. 52Table of ContentsThe Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes disclosure requirements applicable to public companies regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, which we refer to collectively as the DRC, and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict minerals.” These minerals are present in our products. In addition, the European Union reached agreement in late 2016 on a EU-wide conflict minerals rule under which most EU importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores will have to conduct due diligence to ensure the minerals do not originate from conflict zones and do not fund armed conflicts. Large manufacturers also will have to disclose how they plan to monitor their sources to comply with the rules. The regulation was adopted in 2017 with compliance required by 2021.In addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition. These laws and regulations include, among others, the European Union, or EU, Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS. The EU RoHS and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in electronic equipment, including our products. Currently, our products comply with the EU RoHS requirements. However, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse or have lapsed. The lapse of any exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the EU or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. This reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us, disrupt our operations or logistics, and result in an adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, in validating the compliance of our products with applicable hazardous materials restrictions, we rely substantially on affirmations by our component suppliers as to the compliance of their products with respect to those same restrictions. Failure by our component suppliers to furnish accurate and timely information could subject us to penalties or liability for violation of such hazardous materials restrictions, interrupt our supply of products to the EU, and result in our customers refusing or being unable to purchase our products. Additionally, the EU and a number of other jurisdictions have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life. Finally, the EU REACH regulations regulate the handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products.In addition, as a contractor and subcontractor to U.S. government departments and agencies, we are subject to federal regulations pertaining to our IT systems. For instance, as a subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, or DFARS, required that our IT systems comply with the security and privacy controls described in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171, or NIST SP 800-171 no later than December 31, 2017. The DFARS also requires that we flow the security control requirement down to certain of our own subcontractors. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in a loss of federal government business, subject us to claims or other remedies for non-compliance and negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the Internet telecommunications industry. Similarly, while there are currently few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on IP networks, future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the Internet and Internet service provider access charges. We could be adversely affected by regulation of IP networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service providers or cloud provider companies. Regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or cloud provider companies could adversely affect those customers' needs for products. For instance, in December 2017, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission repealed its 2015 regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks. This change in regulatory treatment of networks might impact service provider and cloud provider business models and, as such, providers' needs for Internet telecommunications equipment and services. Also, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment.The adoption and implementation of additional regulations could reduce demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products, result in product inventory write-offs, impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, require us to spend significant time and expense to comply, and subject us to fines and civil or criminal sanctions or claims if we were to violate or become liable under such regulations. Any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 53Table of ContentsGovernmental regulations and economic sanctions affecting the import or export of products generally or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues and operating results.The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls and restrictions on the export of, among other things, products that contain or use encryption technology. Most of our products contain or use encryption technology and, consequently, are subject to such controls, requirements and restrictions. Certain governments also control importation and in-country use of encryption items and technology. The scope, nature and severity of such controls vary widely across different countries and may change frequently over time. For example, recently enacted legislation in the United States expands the power of the federal government to restrict the export of emerging and foundational technologies. How the government chooses to implement this authority will affect our ability to market and sell our products overseas. In addition, China has promulgated cybersecurity regulations affecting networking products that may impair our ability to profitably market and sell our products in China. Certain countries’ encryption control regimes may significantly limit our ability to sell major lines of our products in those countries.Certain governments also impose special local content, certification, testing, source code review, escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys, or feature requirements on network equipment for purposes of government procurements. In addition, the U.S. government has broader sanctions and embargoes that generally forbid supply of most items to or involving certain countries, territories, governments, legal entities and individuals, including restrictions imposed by the US and EU on exports to Russia and Ukraine. We have implemented systems to detect and prevent sales into these countries or to prohibited entities or individuals, but there can be no assurance that they will always be effective. In addition, governments sometimes impose additional taxes on certain imported products. For example, the United States and Chinese governments each have imposed tariffs on certain products originating from the other country. The United States, for example, imposed a 10% tariff on networking products from China that is scheduled to increase to 25% on January 1, 2019. The tariff applies to certain products that we import. Depending upon its duration and implementation, as well as our ability to mitigate their impact, these tariffs could materially affect our business, including in the form of increased cost of goods sold, increased pricing for customers, and reduced sales.Governmental regulation of encryption or IP networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, or related economic sanctions could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. These privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services.For example, we previously relied upon adherence to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Safe Harbor Privacy Principles and compliance with the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework, which we refer to as the Safe Harbor, agreed to by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the EU. The Safe Harbor, which established means for legitimizing the transfer of personal data by U.S. companies from the European Economic Area, or EEA, to the U.S., was invalidated in 2015 by a decision of the European Court of Justice, or the ECJ. Now that the EU and U.S. have implemented a successor privacy framework called the Privacy Shield, we are reviewing and documenting our practices required to obtain certification under the Privacy Shield, in addition to entering into EU Model Contracts with our vendors where appropriate and feasible in anticipation of the possibility that either the Privacy Shield or EU Model Contracts may be legally challenged or voided like Safe Harbor in an uncertain political environment. In addition, the EU General Data Protection Regulation, which went into full effect in May 2018, has resulted in substantial changes to our compliance obligations, including contractual requirements for data transfers outside the EEA, and a significant increase in potential administrative fines for non-compliance. Similarly, the June 2016 approval by voters in the United Kingdom, or U.K., of a referendum to leave the EU could require us to make additional changes to the way we conduct our business and transmit data between the U.S., U.K., EU and the rest of the world. 54Table of ContentsOur actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or to protect personal data, could result in enforcement actions, significant penalties or other legal action against us or our customers or suppliers, which could result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, subject us to claims or other remedies and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel.Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people with specialized industry expertise, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products.A number of our team members are foreign nationals who rely on visas and entry permits in order to legally work in the United States and other countries. In addition, the current U.S. administration has indicated that immigration reform is a priority. Compliance with United States immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals. Any of these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions.Our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives.We are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or more frequently if certain circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible assets below their carrying values. As of September 30, 2018, our goodwill was $3,094.3 million and intangible assets with indefinite lives was $49.0 million. When the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, or if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recorded. Either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. We have in the past recorded goodwill impairment charges. From time to time, economic weakness has contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. Declines in our level of revenues or declines in our operating margins, or sustained declines in our stock price, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives may become impaired in future periods.During the three months ended June 30, 2017, we concluded that there were sufficient indicators to require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment analysis on our Security reporting unit. Based on our analysis, we determined that our Security reporting unit’s goodwill was not impaired. However, our goodwill impairment analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected future cash flows, the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets, and our stock price. If the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. For example, on July 24, 2018, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, or the Court, issued an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner requiring related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share expenses related to share-based compensation. We are monitoring this case and any impact the final opinion could have on our financial statements. These changes include a reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate, the current taxation of certain foreign earnings, the imposition of base-erosion prevention measures which may limit the deduction of certain transfer pricing payments, and possible limitations on the deductibility of net interest expense or corporate debt obligations. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates that are based on current interpretations of the Tax Act and could be affected by changing interpretations of the Act, as well as additional legislation and guidance around the Act. Any refinements to these provisional estimates are difficult to predict and could impact our results. Furthermore, on October 5, 2015, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD, an international association of 35 countries including the U.S., published final proposals under its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or BEPS, Action Plan. The BEPS Action Plan includes fifteen Actions to address BEPS in a comprehensive manner and represents a significant change to the international corporate tax landscape. These proposals, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and adversely affect our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and other tax authorities. It is possible that tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, but the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We may face difficulties enforcing our proprietary rights, which could adversely affect our ability to compete.We generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that any of our patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us or protect our technology, any of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings and other competitive harm. In addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. However, we cannot assure you that we have entered into such agreements with all parties who may have or have had access to our confidential information or that the agreements we have entered into will not be breached. We cannot guarantee that any of the measures we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology.Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States. Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled our success.We are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets. We conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and value-added resellers in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the United States. In some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. Brexit, if implemented, will take some period of time to complete and could result in regulatory changes that impact our business. For example, changes to the way service providers conduct business and transmit data between the UK and the EU could require us to make changes to the way we handle customer data. We will also review the impact of any resulting changes to EU or UK law that could affect our operations, such as labor policies, financial planning, product manufacturing, and product distribution. Political and regulatory responses to the vote are still developing and we are in the process of assessing the impact the vote may have on our business as more information becomes available. Nevertheless, because we conduct business in the EU, including the UK, any of the effects of Brexit, including those we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Our business is also impacted by the negotiation and implementation of free trade agreements between the United States and other nations. Such agreements can reduce barriers to international trade and thus the cost of conducting business overseas. In many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or US regulations applicable to us. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and policies. 57Table of ContentsOur products are highly technical and if they contain undetected defects, errors or malware or do not meet customer quality expectations, our business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to additional costs or lawsuits or be required to pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services.Our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. Our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. These errors may arise from hardware or software we produce or procure from third parties. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. For example, in December 2015, we disclosed that we identified unauthorized code in ScreenOS that could allow a knowledgeable attacker to gain administrative access to NetScreen devices and to decrypt VPN connections.Any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in monetary penalties, negative publicity, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty or indemnification. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention. If our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected.We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.Because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.The majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in U.S. Dollars. We also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Chinese Yuan, Euro, and Indian Rupee related to our sales and service operations outside of the United States. An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States in which we sell in U.S. Dollars. This could negatively affect our ability to meet our customers' pricing expectations in those markets and may result in erosion of gross margin and market share. A weakened U.S. Dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies.Currently, we hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows, with the aim of offsetting the impact of currency fluctuations on these exposures. However, hedge activities can be costly, and hedging cannot fully offset all risks, including long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar. If our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.If we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected.Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. If we fail to effectively improve our systems and processes or we fail to monitor and ensure that these systems and processes are being used correctly, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. 58Table of ContentsIf our products do not interoperate with our customers’ networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business.Our products are designed to interface with our customers’ existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. Our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers’ requirements. If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers’ networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. This could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects.Our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected.We integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. From time to time, we may be required to renegotiate our current third party licenses or license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements or to facilitate new business models. Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. Some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated for convenience by them. In addition, we cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our licensors have sufficient rights to the licensed intellectual property in all jurisdictions in which we may sell our products. Third party technology we incorporate into our products that is deemed to infringe on the intellectual property of others may result, and in some cases has resulted, in limitations on our ability to source technology from those third parties, restrictions on our ability to sell products that incorporate the infringing technology, increased exposure to liability that we will be held responsible for incorporating the infringing technology in our products and increased costs involved in removing that technology from our products or developing substitute technology. Our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and publicly disclose material weaknesses in our controls. Any adverse results from such evaluation may adversely affect investor perception, and our stock price.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner. We have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements. If in the future, our internal controls over financial reporting are determined to be not effective resulting in a material weakness or significant deficiency, investor perceptions regarding the reliability of our financial statements may be adversely affected which could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition.Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.The major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. 59Table of ContentsWe may be unable to generate the cash flow to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our debt obligations, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility.As of September 30, 2018, we have $2,150 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding, which we refer to collectively as the Notes, and had $2,138.3 million in outstanding short-term and long-term debt. In June 2014, we entered into a Credit Agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the Revolving Credit Facility, with an option to increase the Revolving Credit Facility by up to an additional $200.0 million. The Credit Agreement will terminate in June 2019, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid. Our ability to pay our expenses, satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. A failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. Our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default. Beginning in 2018, the Tax Act generally limits the annual deduction for net business interest expense to an amount equal to 30% of adjusted taxable income. As a result, if our taxable income were to decline, we may not be able to fully deduct our net interest expense. These changes, among others under the Tax Act, could result in increases to our future U.S. tax expenses, which could have a material impact on our business. On October 2, 2015, we and the issuer of the promissory note agreed to modify the original terms of the note to extend the maturity date from April 1, 2016 to December 31, 2018. On May 1, 2017, we received a principal payment in the amount of $75.0 million and outstanding interest on the note and we and the issuer agreed to further amend the terms of the note with respect to the remaining approximately $58.0 million to, among other things, extend the maturity date from December 31, 2018 to September 30, 2022, provide that interest due can be paid in kind by increasing the outstanding principal amount of the note and subordinate the note to other debt issued by senior lenders. In the event that the promissory note is not repaid on the terms we contemplate, any collection or restructuring efforts we undertake may be costly and require significant time and attention from our management and there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover the amounts owed to us in full.Our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders or the failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.Our ability to pay quarterly dividends or achieve our intended capital return policy will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and debt service requirements, use of cash for acquisitions and other factors. Any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, or a reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.We announced that, beginning in 2017, we intend to target a capital return policy, inclusive of share repurchases and dividends, of approximately 50% of annual free cash flow. Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. In January 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $2.0 billion buyback authorization, which replaced our prior authorization. In February 2018, as a part of our new buyback authorization, we entered into a $750.0 million accelerated share repurchase program, which was completed in the third quarter of 2018, and our Board of Directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $0.18 per share, which reflects an increase of 80% compared to previous quarterly dividends. Any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.The investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities and equity securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.At September 30, 2018, we had $2,501.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,146.3 million in short-and long-term investments. We have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, U.S. government agency securities, and U.S. government securities. We also have $88.6 million in other long-term assets for our investments in privately-held companies. Certain of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. Alternatively, if a court were to find the exclusive forum provisions contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business.Uninsured losses could harm our operating results.We self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. We also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. In addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our stock price may be volatile.Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in particular and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Item 2. Future share repurchases will be subject to a review of the circumstances in place at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements, including Rule 10b-18 promulgated under the Exchange Act. This program may be discontinued at any time. 62Table of ContentsItem 5. The description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Amendment, which is attached as Exhibit 10.3, and is incorporated herein by reference. 63Table of ContentsItem 6. ++Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement. 64Table of ContentsSIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.