FINANCIAL INFORMATIONITEM 1. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. These financial statements and notes, however, should be read in conjunction with Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017, filed with the SEC on August 4, 2017. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of KLA-Tencor and its majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.The results of operations for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year ending June 30, 2018.Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet and notes to conform to the current year presentation. Actual results could differ from those estimates.Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. The Company derives revenue from three sources—sales of systems, spare parts and services. In general, the Company recognizes revenue for systems when the system has been installed, is operating according to predetermined specifications and is accepted by the customer. When the Company has demonstrated a history of successful installation and acceptance, the Company recognizes revenue upon delivery and customer acceptance. •When system sales to independent distributors have no installation requirement, contain no acceptance agreement, and 100% of the payment is due based upon shipment. •When the installation of the system is deemed perfunctory. •When the customer withholds acceptance due to issues unrelated to product performance, in which case revenue is recognized when the system is performing as intended and meets predetermined specifications. In circumstances in which the Company recognizes revenue prior to installation, the portion of revenue associated with installation is deferred based on estimated fair value, and that revenue is recognized upon completion of the installation. 7Table of ContentsIn many instances, products are sold in stand-alone arrangements. Services are sold separately through renewals of annual maintenance contracts. The Company has multiple element revenue arrangements in cases where certain elements of a sales arrangement are not delivered and accepted in one reporting period. To determine the relative fair value of each element in a revenue arrangement, the Company allocates arrangement consideration based on the selling price hierarchy. The Company determines TPE based on historical prices charged for products and services when sold on a stand-alone basis. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which the Company would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. ESP could potentially be used for new or customized products. The Company regularly reviews relative selling prices and maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. In a multiple element revenue arrangement, the Company defers revenue recognition associated with the relative fair value of each undelivered element until that element is delivered to the customer. If the arrangement does not meet all the above criteria, the entire amount of the sales contract is deferred until all elements are accepted by the customer.Trade-in rights are occasionally granted to customers to trade in tools in connection with subsequent purchases. The Company estimates the value of the trade-in right and reduces the revenue recognized on the initial sale. This amount is recognized at the earlier of the exercise of the trade-in right or the expiration of the trade-in right.The Company enters into volume purchase agreements with some of its customers. The Company accrues the estimated credits earned by its customers for such incentives, and in situations when the credit levels vary depending upon sales volume, the Company updates its accrual based on the amount that the Company estimates will be purchased pursuant to the volume purchase agreements. Accruals for customer credits are recorded as an offset to revenue or deferred revenue. Spare parts revenue is recognized when the parts have been shipped, risk of loss has passed to the customer and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured.Service and maintenance contract revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract. Revenue from services performed in the absence of a maintenance contract, including consulting and training revenue, is recognized when the related services are performed and collectibility is reasonably assured.The Company sells stand-alone software that is subject to software revenue recognition guidance. The Company periodically reviews selling prices to determine whether VSOE exists, and in situations where the Company is unable to establish VSOE for undelivered elements such as post-contract service, revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the service contract.The Company also defers the fair value of non-standard warranty bundled with equipment sales as unearned revenue. Non-standard warranty includes services incremental to the standard 40-hour per week coverage for 12 months. Non-standard warranty is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. The deferred system profit balance equals the value of products that have been shipped and billed to customers which have not met the Company’s revenue recognition criteria, less applicable product and warranty costs. Deferred system profit does not include the profit associated with product shipments to certain customers in Japan, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to such customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The amended guidance requires entities to measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. Under the new guidance, an entity should recognize revenue in connection with the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the new standard requires that reporting companies disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The FASB has also issued several amendments to the standard since its initial issuance. The estimated fair value of the service will be deferred and recognized ratably as revenue over the warranty period.•The Company will generally recognize revenue for its products at a point of time based on judgment of whether or not the Company has satisfied its performance obligation by transferring control of the product to the customer. In evaluating whether or not control has been transferred to the customer, the Company will consider whether or not certain indicators have been met. Not all of the indicators need to be met for the Company to conclude that control has transferred to the customer. •The Company will recognize revenue for software licenses at the time of delivery since the VSOE requirement for undelivered element such as post-contract support is eliminated and companies are allowed to use established or best estimate selling price for the undelivered element to allocate and defer the revenue. As a result, the Company will recognize as revenue a portion of the sales price upon delivery of the software, compared to the current practice of recognizing the entire sales price ratably over the term of the service contract due to the lack of VSOE. The Company will continue to assess the impact of the new standard, including potential changes to the accounting policies, business processes, systems and internal controls over financial reporting and its preliminary assessment of the impact is subject to change. The accounting standard update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which amends the existing accounting standards for leases. Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification. Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than 12 months. The update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2020 using a modified retrospective transition method. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for recognizing impairments of financial assets. Under the update, credit losses for certain types of financial instruments will be estimated based on expected losses. The update also modifies the impairment models for available-for-sale debt securities and for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination. The update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with early adoption permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when they occur. This eliminates the exception to postpone recognition until the asset has been sold to an outside party. This standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, and early adoption is permitted. It is required to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test, which requires an entity to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities similar to what is required in a purchase price allocation. Under the update, goodwill impairment will be calculated as the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value. This standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2021 and requires a prospective approach to adoption. Early adoption is permitted. The standard is effective for the Company for its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its consolidated financial statements. Only the service cost component will be eligible for capitalization in assets. The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and early adoption is permitted. It is required to be applied retrospectively, except for the provision regarding capitalization in assets which is required to be applied prospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update regarding stock compensation that provides guidance about which changes to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in order to reduce diversity in practice and reduce complexity. The update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of the Company’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and should be applied prospectively with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its consolidated financial statements. 10Table of ContentsIn August 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to hedge accounting to better align the Company’s risk management activities by refining financial and non-financial hedging strategy eligibilities. This update also amends the presentation and disclosure requirements to increase transparency to better understand an entity’s risk exposures and how hedging strategies are used to manage those exposures. This standard update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2020, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its condensed consolidated financial statements.NOTE 2 – FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTSThe Company’s financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value, except for its debt and certain equity investments in privately-held companies. These equity investments are generally accounted for under the cost method of accounting and are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. The Company’s non-financial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and land, property and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred.Fair Value of Financial Instruments. KLA-Tencor has evaluated the estimated fair value of financial instruments using available market information and valuations as provided by third-party sources. The fair value of the Company’s cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts due to the relatively short maturity of these items.Fair Value Hierarchy. The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. As of December 31, 2017, the types of instruments valued based on quoted market prices in active markets included money market funds, certain U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government agency securities. Such instruments are generally classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.As of December 31, 2017, the types of instruments valued based on other observable inputs included corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury securities and sovereign securities. Such instruments are generally classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.The principal market in which the Company executes its foreign currency contracts is the institutional market in an over-the-counter environment with a relatively high level of price transparency. The market participants generally are large financial institutions. The Company’s foreign currency contracts’ valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and quoted pricing intervals from public data sources and do not involve management judgment. These contracts are typically classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Treasury securities404,983 394,486 10,497U.S. Government agency securities391,409 368,121 23,288U.S. The Company generally did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements as of December 31, 2017 or June 30, 2017. Participants are credited with returns based on their allocation of their account balances among measurement funds. The Company controls the investment of these funds, and the participants remain general creditors of the Company. The Company invests these funds in certain mutual funds and such investments are classified as trading securities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Distributions from the Executive Deferred Savings Plan commence following a participant’s retirement or termination of employment or on a specified date allowed per the Executive Deferred Savings Plan provisions, except in cases where such distributions are required to be delayed in order to avoid a prohibited distribution under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. Participants can generally elect the distributions to be paid in lump sum or quarterly cash payments over a scheduled period for up to 15 years and are allowed to make subsequent changes to their existing elections as permissible under the Executive Deferred Savings Plan provisions. Changes in the Executive Deferred Savings Plan liability are recorded in selling, general and administrative expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The expense associated with changes in the liability included in selling, general and administrative expense was $7.0 million and $1.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively and $13.8 million and $7.0 million during the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to the Company’s defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a component of net periodic cost for the three and six months ended December 31, 2016 were $0.9 million and $1.3 million, respectively. For additional details, refer to Note 11, “Employee Benefit Plans” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017. The longer the duration of these securities, the more susceptible they are to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. As yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. The Company believes that it has the ability to realize the full value of all of these investments upon maturity. Realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were immaterial. NOTE 5 - BUSINESS COMBINATIONOn June 9, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of the outstanding shares of a privately-held company that designs and manufactures optical profilers and inspection systems for advanced semiconductor packaging, LED and data storage industries, for total purchase consideration of $37.1 million, inclusive of post-closing working capital adjustments. The remaining acquisition holdback amount of $4.8 million was paid during the three months ended December 31, 2017. The primary reason for the acquisition is to expand the Company’s portfolio of products. None of the goodwill recognized is deductible for income tax purposes. NOTE 6 – GOODWILL AND PURCHASED INTANGIBLE ASSETSGoodwillGoodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in prior business combinations. 17Table of ContentsThe Company performed a qualitative assessment of the goodwill by reporting unit as of November 30, 2017 during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as part of its annual goodwill impairment assessment and concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded its carrying amount. As a result of the Company’s determination following its qualitative assessment, it was not necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test at this time. In assessing the qualitative factors, the Company considered the impact of key factors, including changes in the industry and competitive environment, market capitalization, stock price, earnings multiples, budgeted-to-actual revenue performance from prior year, gross margin and cash flows from operating activities. For the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, amortization expense for purchased intangible assets was $2.4 million and $1.8 million, respectively. For additional details, refer to Note 14, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” The original discount on the Senior Notes amounted to $4.0 million and is being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. In the Change of Control Offer, the Company will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Senior Notes repurchased, up to, but not including, the date of repurchase.In November 2017, the Company repaid $250.0 million of Senior Notes at maturity. Based on the trading prices of the Senior Notes on the applicable dates, the fair value of the Senior Notes as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017 was approximately $2.41 billion and $2.67 billion, respectively. While the Senior Notes are recorded at cost, the fair value of the long-term debt was determined based on quoted prices in markets that are not active; accordingly, the long-term debt is categorized as Level 2 for purposes of the fair value measurement hierarchy.As of December 31, 2017, the Company was in compliance with all of its covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior Notes. Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2017 after giving effect to the borrowings made on the closing date, the Company had outstanding $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. The spreads under ABR and LIBOR are subject to adjustment in conjunction with credit rating downgrades or upgrades. The Company is also obligated to pay an annual commitment fee on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility, which ranges from 10 bps to 25 bps, subject to an adjustment in conjunction with changes to the Company’s credit rating. As of December 31, 2017, the Company elected to pay interest on the borrowed amount under the Revolving Credit Facility at LIBOR plus a spread of 125 bps, and an annual commitment fee of 15 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition, the Company is required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis of 3.00 to 1.00, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for each fiscal quarter, which can be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of time in connection with a material acquisition or a series of material acquisitions.The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2017. The plan administrator, at its discretion, may grant a right to receive dividends on the aforementioned awards which may be settled in cash or Company stock at the discretion of the plan administrator subject to meeting the vesting requirement of the underlying awards. 21Table of ContentsOutside Director PlanThe Outside Director Plan only permits the issuance of stock options to the non-employee members of the Board of Directors. The fair value of stock-based awards is measured at the grant date and is recognized as an expense over the employee’s requisite service period. For restricted stock units granted without “dividend equivalent” rights, fair value is calculated using the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date, adjusted to exclude the present value of dividends which are not accrued on those restricted stock units. The fair value for restricted stock units granted with “dividend equivalent” rights is determined using the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date. As of December 31, 2017, the Company accrued $7.6 million of dividends payable, which included both a special cash dividend and regular quarterly cash dividends for the unvested restricted stock units outstanding as of the dividend record date. The restricted stock units granted to the independent members of the board of directors vest annually. The intrinsic value of outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31, 2017 was $196.0 million. The Company changed the timing of its annual grants for its employees resulting in the Cash LTI awards being lower during the six months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the six months ended December 31, 2016. Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash LTI Plan will vest in three or four equal installments, with one-third or one-fourth of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each anniversary of the grant date over a three or four-year period. In order to receive payments under a Cash LTI award, participants must remain employed by the Company as of the applicable award vesting date. Executives and non-employee Board members are not participating in this program. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company recognized $11.5 million and $11.2 million, respectively, in compensation expense under the Cash LTI Plan. During the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company recognized $26.3 million and $23.4 million, respectively, in compensation expense under the Cash LTI Plan. Effective January 2, 2018, eligible employees may contribute up to 15% of their eligible earnings. The ESPP is qualified under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Company estimates the fair value of purchase rights under the ESPP using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The provision allows for share replenishment equal to the lesser of 2.0 million shares or the number of shares which KLA-Tencor estimates will be required to be issued under the ESPP during the forthcoming fiscal year. As of December 31, 2017, a total of 2.4 million shares were reserved and available for issuance under the ESPP.Quarterly cash dividendsOn November 1, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.59 per share on the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, which was paid on December 1, 2017 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 15, 2017. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid by the Company during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $92.6 million and $84.5 million, respectively. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid by the Company during the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $186.7 million and $166.1 million, respectively. The amount of accrued dividends payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested restricted stock units with dividend equivalent rights as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017 was $4.8 million and $4.8 million, respectively. These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying restricted stock units.Special cash dividendOn November 19, 2014, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding common stock, which was paid on December 9, 2014 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 1, 2014. The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of the Company’s leveraged recapitalization transaction under which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt financing disclosed in Note 7, “Debt” that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014. As of the declaration date, the total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by the Company was approximately $2.76 billion, substantially all of which was paid out during the three months ended December 31, 2014, except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested restricted stock units. As of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, the Company had a total of $2.8 million and $9.0 million, respectively, of accrued dividends payable for the special cash dividend with respect to outstanding unvested restricted stock units, which will be paid when such underlying unvested restricted stock units vest. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested restricted stock units were immaterial. During the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested restricted stock units were $6.2 million and $7.7 million, respectively. Other than the special cash dividend declared during the three months ended December 31, 2014, the Company historically has not declared any special cash dividend. NOTE 9 – STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM The Company’s Board of Directors has authorized a program for the Company to repurchase shares of the Company’s common stock. The intent of this program is to offset the dilution from KLA-Tencor’s equity incentive plans and employee stock purchase plan, as well as to return excess cash to the Company’s stockholders. Subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors, the repurchases were made in the open market in compliance with applicable securities laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder, such as Rule 10b-18 and Rule 10b5-1. As of December 31, 2017, an aggregate of approximately 4.9 million shares were available for repurchase under the Company’s repurchase program. The amount was recorded as a component of other current liabilities for the period presented. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units and options is reflected in diluted net income per share by application of the treasury stock method. Income tax effects resulting from changes in tax laws are accounted for by the Company in accordance with the authoritative guidance, which requires that these tax effects be recognized in the period in which the law is enacted and the effects are recorded as a component of provision for income taxes from continuing operations. As a result, the Company made an additional provision for income tax resulting from the enactment of the Act during the three and six months ended December 31, 2017.The Act includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system which reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% as of January 1, 2018; shifts to a modified territorial tax regime which requires companies to pay a transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred; and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. The decrease in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% results in a blended statutory tax rate of 28.1% for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. The new taxes for certain foreign-sourced earnings under the Act are effective for the Company after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. The increase in provision for income taxes during the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 was partially offset by a decrease of $25.0 million relating to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 28.1% for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. The amounts resulting from the transition tax are payable over a period of up to eight years. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had not fully completed its accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Act. The Company’s provision for income taxes for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 is based in part on a reasonable estimate of the effects on its transition tax and existing deferred tax balances. For the amounts which the Company was able to reasonably estimate, the Company recognized a provisional tax amount of $442.0 million, which is included as a component of provision for income taxes from continuing operations. Further, the transition tax is based in part on the amount of those earnings held in cash and other specified assets. In addition, further interpretations from U.S. federal and state governments and regulatory organizations may change the provisional tax liability or the accounting treatment of the provisional tax liability. •The Company recorded a provisional tax amount of $101.1 million to re-measure certain deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the enactment of the Act. The Company is still analyzing certain aspects of the Act and refining the estimate of the expected reversal of its deferred tax balances. This income will effectively be taxed at a 10.5% tax rate in general. As a result, the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities are being evaluated if the deferred tax assets and liabilities should be recognized for the basis differences expected to reverse as a result of GILTI provisions that are effective for the Company after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, or should the tax on GILTI provisions be recognized in the period the Act was signed into law. Currently, the Company has not elected a method and will only do so after its completion of the analysis of the GILTI provisions and its election method will depend, in part, on analyzing its global income to determine whether the Company expects to have future U.S. inclusions in its taxable income related to GILTI and, if so, the impact that is expected.In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to examination by tax authorities throughout the world. The Company is subject to United States federal income tax examination for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. The Company is subject to state income tax examinations for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013. The Company is also subject to examinations in other major foreign jurisdictions, including Singapore, for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013. It is possible that certain examinations may be concluded in the next twelve months. The Company believes that it may recognize up to $12.6 million of its existing unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months as a result of the lapse of statutes of limitations and the resolution of examinations with various tax authorities. 27Table of ContentsNOTE 12 – LITIGATION AND OTHER LEGAL MATTERSThe Company is named from time to time as a party to lawsuits and other types of legal proceedings and claims in the normal course of its business. Actions filed against the Company include commercial, intellectual property, customer, and labor and employment related claims, including complaints of alleged wrongful termination and potential class action lawsuits regarding alleged violations of federal and state wage and hour and other laws. Moreover, the results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of outcome. The Company believes the amounts provided in its condensed consolidated financial statements are adequate in light of the probable and estimated liabilities. However, because such matters are subject to many uncertainties, the ultimate outcomes are not predictable, and there can be no assurances that the actual amounts required to satisfy alleged liabilities from the matters described above will not exceed the amounts reflected in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements or will not have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.NOTE 13 – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIESFactoring. The Company does not believe it is at risk for any material losses as a result of these agreements. Facilities. KLA-Tencor leases certain of its facilities under arrangements that are accounted for as operating leases. KLA-Tencor maintains commitments to purchase inventory from its suppliers as well as goods and services in the ordinary course of business. The Company’s liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. The Company’s estimate of its significant purchase commitments is approximately $481.0 million as of December 31, 2017 which are primarily due within the next 12 months. Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties. 28Table of ContentsCash Long-Term Incentive Plan. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had committed $120.2 million for future payment obligations under its Cash LTI Plan. The calculation of compensation expense related to the Cash LTI Plan includes estimated forfeiture rate assumptions. Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash LTI Plan vest in three or four equal installments, with one-third or one-fourth of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each yearly anniversary of the grant date over a three or four-year period. In order to receive payments under a Cash LTI award, participants must remain employed by the Company as of the applicable award vesting date.Warranties, Guarantees and Contingencies. KLA-Tencor provides standard warranty coverage on its systems for 40 hours per week for 12 months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair and maintain the systems during the warranty period. The Company accounts for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to costs of revenues when revenue is recognized. The estimated warranty cost is based on historical product performance and field expenses. Utilizing actual service records, the Company calculates the average service hours and parts expense per system and applies the actual labor and overhead rates to determine the estimated warranty charge. The Company updates these estimated charges on a regular basis. Typically, these obligations arise in connection with contracts and license agreements or the sale of assets, under which the Company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from, or provides customers with other remedies to protect against, bodily injury or damage to personal property caused by the Company’s products, non-compliance with the Company’s product performance specifications, infringement by the Company’s products of third-party intellectual property rights and a breach of warranties, representations and covenants related to matters such as title to assets sold, validity of certain intellectual property rights, non-infringement of third-party rights, and certain income tax-related matters. In each of these circumstances, payment by the Company is typically subject to the other party making a claim to and cooperating with the Company pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract. This usually allows the Company to challenge the other party’s claims or, in case of breach of intellectual property representations or covenants, to control the defense or settlement of any third-party claims brought against the other party. Subject to certain limitations, the Company is obligated to indemnify its current and former directors, officers and employees with respect to certain litigation matters and investigations that arise in connection with their service to the Company. These obligations arise under the terms of the Company’s certificate of incorporation, its bylaws, applicable contracts, and Delaware and California law. The obligation to indemnify generally means that the Company is required to pay or reimburse the individuals’ reasonable legal expenses and possibly damages and other liabilities incurred in connection with these matters. 29Table of ContentsIn addition, the Company may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments. Furthermore, the Company may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that the Company is complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, the Company may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, the Company has made no significant accruals in its condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While the Company has not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, the Company cannot make any assurance that it will not incur any such liabilities in the future.It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the Company’s obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the Company under these agreements have not had a material effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.NOTE 14 – DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIESThe authoritative guidance requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency exchange contracts, as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the balance sheet. In accordance with the guidance, the Company designates foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts as cash flow hedges of certain forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and purchase transactions.KLA-Tencor’s foreign subsidiaries operate and sell KLA-Tencor’s products in various global markets. As a result, KLA-Tencor is exposed to risks relating to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. KLA-Tencor utilizes foreign currency forward exchange contracts and option contracts to hedge against future movements in foreign exchange rates that affect certain existing and forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and purchase transactions, such as the Japanese yen, the euro, the New Taiwan dollar and the Israeli new shekel. The Company routinely hedges its exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. These currency forward exchange contracts and options, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 18 months. Cash flow hedges are evaluated for effectiveness monthly, based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives. Changes in the fair value of currency forward exchange and option contracts due to changes in time value are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness. The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. The objective of the Rate Lock Agreements was to hedge the risk associated with the variability in interest rates due to the changes in the benchmark rate leading up to the closing of the intended financing, on the notional amount being hedged. The Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate which matured in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. As of December 31, 2017, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the rate lock agreements was $5.2 million. The Company has entered into arrangements with each of its counterparties, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty under certain conditions. The Company’s payable balance from these parties was immaterial at December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017. Management believes that such transactions are at arm’s length and on similar terms as would have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties.NOTE 16 – SEGMENT REPORTING AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATIONKLA-Tencor reports one reportable segment in accordance with the provisions of the authoritative guidance for segment reporting. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. KLA-Tencor’s chief operating decision maker is its Chief Executive Officer. The Company is engaged primarily in designing, manufacturing, and marketing process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries. All operating segments have been aggregated due to their inter-dependencies, commonality of long-term economic characteristics, products and services, the production processes, class of customer and distribution processes. Since the Company operates in one reportable segment, all financial segment information required by the authoritative guidance can be found in the condensed consolidated financial statements.The Company’s significant operations outside the United States include manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Israel and Singapore and sales, marketing and service offices in Japan, the rest of the Asia Pacific region and Europe. For geographical revenue reporting, revenues are attributed to the geographic location in which the customer is located. In the three months ended December 31, 2016, two customers accounted for approximately 31% and 13% of total revenues. In the six months ended December 31, 2017, one customer accounted for approximately 22% of total revenues. In the six months ended December 31, 2016, two customers accounted for approximately 30% and 11% of total revenues. Two customers on an individual basis accounted for greater than 10% of net accounts receivables as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. You can identify these and other forward-looking statements by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “relies,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “intends,” “potential,” “continue,” “thinks,” “seeks,” or the negative of such terms, or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements also include the assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this report as well as in Item 1, “Business” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 4, 2017. You should carefully review these risks and also review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, and we expressly assume no obligation and do not intend to update the forward-looking statements in this report after the date hereof.EXECUTIVE SUMMARYKLA-Tencor Corporation is a leading supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries. We provide leading-edge equipment, software and support that enable IC manufacturers to identify, resolve and manage significant advanced technology manufacturing process challenges and obtain higher finished product yields at lower overall cost. Our products, services and expertise are used by our customers to measure, detect, analyze and resolve critical product defects that arise in that environment in order to control nanometric level manufacturing processes. Our revenues are driven largely by our customers’ spending on capital equipment and related maintenance services necessary to support key transitions in their underlying product technologies, or to increase their production volumes in response to market demand or expansion plans. Our semiconductor customers generally operate in one or more of the three major semiconductor markets - memory, foundry and logic. All three of these markets are characterized by rapid technological changes and sudden shifts in end-user demand, which influence the level and pattern of our customers’ spending on our products and services. Although capital spending in all three semiconductor markets has historically been very cyclical, the demand for more advanced and lower cost chips used in a growing number of consumer electronics, communications, data processing, and industrial and automotive products has resulted over the long term in a favorable demand environment for our process control and yield management solutions, particularly in the foundry and logic markets, which have higher levels of process control adoption than the memory market. As we are a supplier to the global semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries, our customer base continues to become more highly concentrated over time, thereby increasing the potential impact of a sudden change in capital spending by a major customer on our revenues and profitability. As our customer base becomes increasingly more concentrated, large orders from a relatively limited number of customers account for a substantial portion of our sales, which potentially exposes us to more volatility for revenues and earnings. In the global semiconductor related industries, China is emerging as a major region for manufacturing of logic and memory chips, adding to its role as the world’s largest consumer of ICs. Government initiatives are propelling China to expand its domestic manufacturing capacity and attracting semiconductor manufacturers from Taiwan, Korea, Japan and the US. China is currently seen as an important long term growth region for the semiconductor capital equipment sector. We are also subject to the cyclical capital spending that has historically characterized the semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries. The timing, length, intensity and volatility of the capacity-oriented capital spending cycles of our customers are unpredictable. The semiconductor industry has also been characterized by constant technological innovation. Intertwined in these areas, spurred by data storage and connectivity needs, is the growth in demand for memory chips. On the other hand, higher design costs for the most advanced ICs could economically constrain leading-edge manufacturing technology customers to focus their resources on only the large technologically advanced products and applications. We believe that, over the long term, our customers will continue to invest in advanced technologies and new materials to enable smaller design rules and higher density applications that fuel demand for process control equipment, although the growth for such equipment may be adversely impacted by higher design costs for advanced ICs, reuse of installed products, and delays in production ramps by our customers in response to higher costs and technical challenges at more advanced technology nodes.The demand for our products and our revenue levels are driven by our customers’ needs to solve the process challenges that they face as they adopt new technologies required to fabricate advanced ICs that are incorporated into sophisticated mobile devices. The timing for our customers in ordering and taking delivery of process control and yield management equipment is also determined by our customers’ requirements to meet the next generation production ramp schedules, and the timing for capacity expansion to meet end customer demand. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, revenues for our process control equipment had a modest increase compared to the quarter ended September 30, 2017. Our earnings will depend not only on our revenue levels, but also on the amount of research and development spending required to meet our customers’ technology roadmaps. We have maintained production volumes and capacity to meet anticipated customer requirements and remain at risk of incurring significant inventory-related and other restructuring charges if business conditions deteriorate. Over the past year, our customers have taken delivery of higher volumes of process control equipment than they did in the previous year. However, any delay or push out by our customers in taking delivery of process control and yield management equipment may cause earnings volatility, due to increases in the risk of inventory related charges as well as timing of revenue recognition. Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience, and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure that they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We discuss the development and selection of the critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis, and the Audit Committee has reviewed our related disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates.Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. We derive revenue from three sources—sales of systems, spare parts and services. In general, we recognize revenue for systems when the system has been installed, is operating according to predetermined specifications and is accepted by the customer. When we have demonstrated a history of successful installation and acceptance, we recognize revenue upon delivery and customer acceptance. •When system sales to independent distributors have no installation requirement, contain no acceptance agreement, and 100% of the payment is due based upon shipment. •When the installation of the system is deemed perfunctory. •When the customer withholds acceptance due to issues unrelated to product performance, in which case revenue is recognized when the system is performing as intended and meets predetermined specifications. In circumstances in which we recognize revenue prior to installation, the portion of revenue associated with installation is deferred based on estimated fair value, and that revenue is recognized upon completion of the installation.In many instances, products are sold in stand-alone arrangements. Services are sold separately through renewals of annual maintenance contracts. We have multiple element revenue arrangements in cases where certain elements of a sales arrangement are not delivered and accepted in one reporting period. To determine the relative fair value of each element in a revenue arrangement, we allocate arrangement consideration based on the selling price hierarchy. We determine TPE based on historical prices charged for products and services when sold on a stand-alone basis. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. ESP could potentially be used for new or customized products. We regularly review relative selling prices and maintain internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. In a multiple element revenue arrangement, we defer revenue recognition associated with the relative fair value of each undelivered element until that element is delivered to the customer. If the arrangement does not meet all the above criteria, the entire amount of the sales contract is deferred until all elements are accepted by the customer.Trade-in rights are occasionally granted to customers to trade in tools in connection with subsequent purchases. We estimate the value of the trade-in right and reduce the revenue recognized on the initial sale. This amount is recognized at the earlier of the exercise of the trade-in right or the expiration of the trade-in right.We enter into volume purchase agreements with some of our customers. We accrue the estimated credits earned by our customers for such incentives, and in situations when the credit levels vary depending upon sales volume, we update our accrual based on the amount that we estimate will be purchased pursuant to the volume purchase agreements. Accruals for customer credits are recorded as an offset to revenue or deferred revenue. Spare parts revenue is recognized when the parts have been shipped, risk of loss has passed to the customer and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured.Service and maintenance contract revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract. Revenue from services performed in the absence of a maintenance contract, including consulting and training revenue, is recognized when the related services are performed and collectibility is reasonably assured.We sell stand-alone software that is subject to software revenue recognition guidance. We periodically review selling prices to determine whether VSOE exists, and in situations where we are unable to establish VSOE for undelivered elements such as post-contract service, revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the service contract.We also defer the fair value of non-standard warranty bundled with equipment sales as unearned revenue. Non-standard warranty includes services incremental to the standard 40-hour per week coverage for 12 months. Non-standard warranty is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. The deferred system profit balance equals the value of products that have been shipped and billed to customers which have not met our revenue recognition criteria, less applicable product and warranty costs. Deferred system profit does not include the profit associated with product shipments to certain customers in Japan, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to such customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. 38Table of ContentsWe enter into sales arrangements that may consist of multiple deliverables of our products and services where certain elements of the sales arrangement are not delivered and accepted in one reporting period. Judgment is required to properly identify the accounting units of the multiple deliverable transactions and to determine the manner in which revenue should be allocated among the accounting units. Additionally, judgment is required to interpret various commercial terms and determine when all criteria of revenue recognition have been met in order for revenue recognition to occur in the appropriate accounting period. While changes in the allocation of the estimated selling price between the accounting units will not affect the amount of total revenue recognized for a particular arrangement, any material changes in these allocations could impact the timing of revenue recognition, which could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations.Income TaxesWe account for income taxes in accordance with the authoritative guidance which requires income tax effects for changes in tax laws are recognized in the period in which the law is enacted. Transition tax liability is recognized in the period when the change in the U.S. tax law was enacted and the income tax effects are recorded as a component of provision for income taxes from continuing operations. The calculation of the transition tax liability includes assumptions and reasonable estimates of the income tax effects and are based on provisional tax amounts. We applied the current interpretations from the U.S. federal and state governments and regulatory organization in our calculation of the transition tax liability and our reasonable estimate of the transition tax liability could change if further interpretations are provided for in the future. We expect to fully complete our provisional transition tax liability calculation within the reasonable measurement period allowed by the authoritative guidance.Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. The guidance also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. We have determined that a valuation allowance is necessary against a portion of the deferred tax assets, but we anticipate that our future taxable income will be sufficient to recover the remainder of our deferred tax assets. However, should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets that are not subject to a valuation allowance, we could be required to record an additional valuation allowance against such deferred tax assets. This would result in an increase to our tax provision in the period in which we determine that the recovery is not probable.On a quarterly basis, we provide for income taxes based upon an estimated annual effective income tax rate. The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. We carefully monitor the changes in many factors and adjust our effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, this could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. In accordance with the authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, we recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained in audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Any change in these factors could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision.Valuation of Goodwill and Intangible AssetsGoodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in each business combination. See Note 6, “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. We performed a qualitative assessment of the goodwill by reporting unit as of November 30, 2017 during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and concluded that there was no impairment. We assess goodwill for impairment annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. 39Table of ContentsIf we were to encounter challenging economic conditions, such as a decline in our operating results, an unfavorable industry or macroeconomic environment, a substantial decline in our stock price, or any other adverse change in market conditions, we may be required to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment analysis. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. Demonstration units are stated at their manufacturing cost and written down to their net realizable value. We review and set standard costs semi-annually at current manufacturing costs in order to approximate actual costs. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of forecasted spending over projected volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Abnormal inventory costs such as costs of idle facilities, excess freight and handling costs, and spoilage are recognized as current period charges. We write down product inventory based on forecasted demand and technological obsolescence and service spare parts inventory based on forecasted usage. These factors are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may include uncertain elements. Actual demand may differ from forecasted demand, and such differences may have a material effect on recorded inventory values.Recent Accounting PronouncementsFor a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including those recently adopted and the expected dates of adoption as well as estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements of those not yet adopted, see Note 1, “Basis of Presentation” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Our product revenues in any particular quarter are significantly impacted by the amount of new orders that we receive during that quarter and, depending upon the duration of manufacturing and installation cycles, in the preceding quarters.Product revenues during the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017 remained relatively unchanged.Product revenues increased during the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to increased investments from our memory customers for next generation technology as well as capacity-related investments.Product revenues increased during the six months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the six months ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to increased investments from our memory and logic customers for next generation technology as well as capacity-related investments.Service revenuesService revenues are generated from maintenance contracts, as well as billable time and material service calls made to our customers after the expiration of the warranty period. The amount of our service revenues is typically a function of the number of post-warranty systems installed at our customers’ sites and the utilization of those systems, but it is also impacted by other factors, such as our rate of service contract renewals, the types of systems being serviced and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Service revenues during the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased compared to each of the three months ended September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and service revenues during the six months ended December 31, 2017 increased compared to the six months ended December 31, 2016, primarily as a result of an increase over time in the number of post-warranty systems installed at our customers’ sites over that time period. It also includes the effect of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, average customer pricing and customer revenue deferrals associated with volume purchase agreements. Changes in gross margin percentage from mix of products and services sold reflect the impact of changes in the composition within product and service offerings. Changes in gross margin percentage from manufacturing labor, overhead and efficiencies reflect our ability to manage costs and drive productivity as we scale our manufacturing activity to respond to customer requirements; this includes the impact of capacity utilization, use of overtime and variability of cost structure. Changes in gross margin percentage from other service and manufacturing costs include the impact of customer support costs, including the efficiencies with which we deliver services to our customers, and the effectiveness with which we manage our production plans and inventory risk.Our gross margin increased to 64.4% during the three months ended December 31, 2017 from 63.5% during the three months ended September 30, 2017, primarily due to a favorable mix of products and services sold, a lower charges for inventory obsolescence, lower warranty costs, and an increase in manufacturing efficiencies.Our gross margin increased to 64.4% during the three months ended December 31, 2017, from 63.7% during the three months ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to higher revenue volume of products and services, and a favorable mix of products and services sold, partially offset by a decrease in manufacturing efficiencies. To do this, we believe that we must continue to make substantial and focused investments in our research and development. Income tax effects resulting from changes in tax laws are accounted for by us in accordance with the authoritative guidance, which requires that these tax effects be recognized in the period in which the law is enacted and the effects are recorded as a component of provision for income taxes from continuing operations. As a result, we made an additional provision for income tax resulting from the enactment of the Act during the three and six months ended December 31, 2017.This Act includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system which reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% as of January 1, 2018; shifts to a modified territorial tax regime which requires companies to pay a transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred; and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. The decrease in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% results in a blended statutory tax rate of 28.1% for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. The new taxes for certain foreign-sourced earnings under the Act are effective for the Company after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. The increase in provision for income taxes during the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 was partially offset by a decrease of $25.0 million relating to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 28.1% for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. The amounts resulting from the transition tax are payable over a period of up to eight years.As of December 31, 2017, we had not yet completed our accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Act. Our provision for income taxes for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 is based in part on a reasonable estimate of the effects on its transition tax and existing deferred tax balances. For the amounts which we were able to reasonably estimate, we recognized a provisional tax amount of $442.0 million, which is included as a component of provision for income taxes from continuing operations. Further, the transition tax is based in part on the amount of those earnings held in cash and other specified assets. •We recorded a provisional tax amount of $101.1 million to re-measure certain deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the enactment of the Act. We are still analyzing certain aspects of the Act and refining the estimate of the expected reversal of our deferred tax balances. This can potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts. 45Table of ContentsWe expect a recurring tax rate of 17% for the remaining six months of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. In addition, there will be an increase or decrease in tax expense for the remaining six months of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018 for changes in uncertain tax positions and items treated as period costs that are not included in the recurring tax rate. Our recurring tax rate differs from our effective tax rate as a result of inclusion of certain period costs in our effective tax rate but not in the recurring tax rate. There will also be changes in the provisional tax amounts as a result of the Act related to the effects on our deferred tax balances and the transition tax as additional information becomes available. This income will effectively be taxed at a 10.5% tax rate in general. As a result, our deferred tax assets and liabilities are being evaluated if the deferred tax assets and liabilities should be recognized for the basis differences expected to reverse as a result of GILTI provisions that are effective for us after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, or should the tax on GILTI provisions be recognized in the period the Act was signed into law. Currently, we have not elected a method and will only do so after our completion of the analysis of the GILTI provisions and our election method will depend, in part, on analyzing our global income to determine whether we expect to have future U.S. inclusions in our taxable income related to GILTI and, if so, the impact that is expected.In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by tax authorities throughout the world. We are subject to United States federal income tax examination for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. We are subject to state income tax examinations for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013. We are also subject to examinations in other major foreign jurisdictions, including Singapore, for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013. It is possible that certain examinations may be concluded in the next twelve months. We believe that we may recognize up to $12.6 million of our existing unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months as a result of the lapse of statutes of limitations and the resolution of examinations with various tax authorities. The decrease is mainly due to the payment of Senior Notes and term loans of $696.3 million, payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $192.9 million, and stock repurchases of $80.4 million, partially offset by our cash generated from operations, net proceeds from marketable securities of $172.4 million, and proceeds from the revolving credit facility, net of issuance costs, of $248.7 million. As of December 31, 2017, $1.96 billion of our $2.76 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. We have accrued U.S. federal taxes under the Tax Cut and Jobs Act and can repatriate these funds without incurring any additional U.S. federal tax other than if the U.S. dollar value of the funds increase. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest $1.76 billion of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our foreign subsidiaries. If, however, a portion of these funds were to be repatriated to the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay state and foreign taxes of approximately 1%-22% of the funds repatriated. The amount of taxes due will depend on the amount and manner of the repatriation, as well as the location from which the funds are repatriated. We have accrued state and foreign tax on the remaining cash of $197.4 million of the $1.96 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. During the same period in fiscal year 2017, our Board of Directors declared and paid a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.54 per share on our outstanding common stock. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $92.6 million and $84.5 million, respectively. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends paid during the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $186.7 million and $166.1 million, respectively. The amount of accrued dividends payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested restricted stock units with dividend equivalent rights as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017 was $4.8 million and $4.8 million, respectively. These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying unvested restricted stock units as described in Note 8, “Equity and Long-term Incentive Compensation Plans,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements.On November 19, 2014, we declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding common stock which was paid on December 9, 2014 to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 1, 2014. The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of our leveraged recapitalization transaction under which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt financing disclosed in Note 7, “Debt,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014. As of the declaration date, the total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by us was approximately $2.76 billion, substantially all of which was paid out during the three months ended December 31, 2014, except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested restricted stock units. As of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017, we had $2.8 million and $9.0 million, respectively, of accrued dividends payable for the special cash dividend with respect to outstanding unvested restricted stock units, which will be paid when such underlying unvested restricted stock units vest. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested restricted stock units were immaterial. During the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested restricted stock units were $6.2 million and $7.7 million, respectively. Other than the special cash dividend declared during the three months ended December 31, 2014, we historically have not declared any special cash dividend. The stock repurchase program is intended, in part, to offset shares issued in connection with the purchases under our ESPP program and the vesting of employee restricted stock units. For additional details, refer to Note 14, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements. The original discount on the Senior Notes amounted to $4.0 million and is being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. In November 2017, we repaid $250.0 million of Senior Notes at maturity. Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate. As of December 30, 2017, 2017, after giving effect to the borrowings made on the closing date, we had outstanding $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. The proceeds from the borrowings on the closing date, together with the cash on hand was used to pay in full the remaining term loan balance under the Credit Facility. We may prepay the Revolving Credit Facility at any time without a prepayment penalty. The spreads under ABR and LIBOR are subject to adjustment in conjunction with credit rating downgrades or upgrades. We are also obligated to pay an annual commitment fee on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility, which ranges from 10 bps to 25 bps, subject to an adjustment in conjunction with changes to our credit rating. As of December 31, 2017, we elected to pay interest on the borrowed amount under the Revolving Credit Facility at LIBOR plus a spread of 125 bps, and an annual commitment fee of 15 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility. 49Table of ContentsThe Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. Our future interest payments are subject to change if our then effective credit rating is below investment grade as discussed above. As of December 31, 2017, we elected to pay interest on the borrowed amount under the Revolving Credit Facility at LIBOR plus a spread of 125 bps and we utilized the existing interest rates to project our estimated interest payments on the borrowed amount under the Revolving Credit Facility through fiscal year 2023. The interest payment under the Revolving Credit Facility for the undrawn balance is payable at 15 bps as a commitment fee based on the daily undrawn balance and we utilized the existing rate for the projected interest payments included in the table above. Our future interest payments for the Revolving Credit Facility is subject to change due to future fluctuations in the LIBOR rates or ABR rates if then elected, as well as any upgrades or downgrades to our then effective credit rating. Our liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. The expected payment after estimated forfeitures is approximately $97.2 million. As of December 31, 2017, our defined benefit pension plans do not have material required minimum cash contribution obligations. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to the uncertainties in the timing around participant’s separation and any potential changes that participants may decide to make to the previous distribution elections. In order to receive payments under the Cash LTI Plan, participants must remain employed by us as of the applicable award vesting date. We have agreements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. 51Table of ContentsWe provide standard warranty coverage on our systems for 40 hours per week for 12 months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair the systems during the warranty period. We account for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to costs of revenues when revenue is recognized. The estimated warranty cost is based on historical product performance and field expenses. The difference between the estimated and actual warranty costs tends to be larger for new product introductions as there is limited historical product performance to estimate warranty expense; our warranty charge estimates for more mature products with longer product performance histories tend to be more stable. Non-standard warranty coverage generally includes services incremental to the standard 40 hours per week coverage for 12 months. As of December 31, 2017, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $2.76 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of the business, and others of which relate to the uncertainties of global and regional economies and the semiconductor and the semiconductor equipment industries. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash and cash equivalents balances and our $750.0 million Revolving Credit Facility, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements associated with working capital needs, capital expenditures, cash dividends, stock repurchases and other contractual obligations, including repayment of outstanding debt, for at least the next 12 months. This financial exposure is monitored and managed as an integral part of our overall risk management program which focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. The objective of the Rate Lock Agreements was to hedge the risk associated with the variability in interest rates due to the changes in the benchmark rate leading up to the closing of the intended financing, on the notional amount being hedged. The Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate which matured in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. As of December 31, 2017, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the rate lock agreements was $5.2 million. Indemnification Obligations. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees with respect to certain litigation matters and investigations that arise in connection with their service to us. These obligations arise under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, applicable contracts, and Delaware and California law. The obligation to indemnify generally means that we are required to pay or reimburse the individuals’ reasonable legal expenses and possibly damages and other liabilities incurred in connection with these matters. For example, we have paid or reimbursed legal expenses incurred in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices and the related litigation and government inquiries by a number of our current and former directors, officers and employees. Although the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under the indemnification obligations generally described in this paragraph is theoretically unlimited, we believe the fair value of this liability, to the extent estimable, is appropriately considered within the reserve we have established for currently pending legal proceedings.We are a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise in connection with contracts and license agreements or the sale of assets, under which we customarily agree to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from, or provide customers with other remedies to protect against, bodily injury or damage to personal property caused by our products, non-compliance with our product performance specifications, infringement by our products of third-party intellectual property rights and a breach of warranties, representations and covenants related to matters such as title to assets sold, validity of certain intellectual property rights, non-infringement of third-party rights, and certain income tax-related matters. In each of these circumstances, payment by us is typically subject to the other party making a claim to and cooperating with us pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract. This usually allows us to challenge the other party’s claims or, in case of breach of intellectual property representations or covenants, to control the defense or settlement of any third-party claims brought against the other party. Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, we have made no significant accruals in our condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future.It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under these agreements have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 53Table of ContentsITEM 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKWe are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. To mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency hedges. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of December 31, 2017. Actual results may differ materially.As of December 31, 2017, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $1.68 billion. These securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. If market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 bps from levels as of December 31, 2017, the fair value of the portfolio would have declined by $20.2 million. The fair market value of long-term fixed interest rate notes is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value and the book value of our Senior Notes were $2.41 billion and $2.25 billion, respectively, due in various fiscal years ranging from 2020 to 2035. Additionally, the interest expense for the Senior Notes is subject to interest rate adjustments following a downgrade of our credit ratings below investment grade by the credit rating agencies. Following a rating change below investment grade, the stated interest rate for each series of Senior Notes may increase between 25 bps to 100 bps based on the adjusted credit rating. Refer to Note 7, “Debt,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” in Part I, Item 2 for additional details. Factors that can affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the economic environment, conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries, our financial position, and changes in our business strategy. Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2017 after giving effect to the borrowings made on the closing date, we had outstanding $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. The spread ranges from 100 bps to 175 bps based on the adjusted credit rating. The fair value of the borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility is subject to interest rate risk only to the extent of the fixed spread portion of the interest rates which does not fluctuate with change in interest rates. We are also obligated to pay an annual commitment fee of 15 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility which is also subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades. The annual commitment fee ranges from 10 bps to 25 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility, depending upon the then effective credit rating. As of December 31, 2017, if LIBOR-based interest rates increased by 100 bps, the change would increase our annual interest expense annually by approximately $2.4 million as it relates to our borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. Additionally, as of December 31, 2017, if our credit ratings were downgraded to be below investment grade, the maximum potential increase to our annual interest expense for the Revolving Credit Facility, using the highest range of the ranges discussed above, is estimated to be approximately $1.8 million. See Note 4, “Marketable Securities,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1; Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” in Part I, Item 2; and Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent market events that may affect the value of the investments in our portfolio that we held as of December 31, 2017. If we had entered into these contracts on December 31, 2017, the U.S. dollar equivalent would have been $66.3 million. A 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $29.6 million. However, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. Accordingly, we believe that, as a result of the hedging of certain of our foreign currency exposure, changes in most relevant foreign currency exchange rates should have no material impact on our income or cash flows. Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this Report the Company’s Disclosure Controls were effective at a reasonable assurance level.Attached as exhibits to this Report are certifications of the CEO and CFO, which are required in accordance with Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act. This Controls and Procedures section includes the information concerning the controls evaluation referred to in the certifications, and it should be read in conjunction with the certifications for a more complete understanding of the topics presented.Definition of Disclosure ControlsDisclosure Controls are controls and procedures designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed in the Company’s reports filed under the Exchange Act, such as this Report, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure Controls are also designed to reasonably assure that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company’s Disclosure Controls include components of its internal control over financial reporting, which consists of control processes designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. To the extent that components of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting are included within its Disclosure Controls, they are included in the scope of the Company’s annual controls evaluation.Limitations on the Effectiveness of ControlsThe Company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, does not expect that the Company’s Disclosure Controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.Changes in Internal Control over Financial ReportingThere were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended December 31, 2017 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 55Table of ContentsPART II. If we fail to appropriately adjust our cost structure and operations to adapt to any of these trends, or, with respect to technological advances, if we do not timely develop new technologies and products that successfully anticipate and address these changes, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.In addition, we face a number of risks specific to ongoing changes in the semiconductor industry, as the significant majority of our sales are made to semiconductor manufacturers. 56Table of ContentsAny of the changes described above may negatively affect our customers’ rate of investment in the capital equipment that we produce, which could result in downward pressure on our prices, customer orders, revenues and gross margins. If we do not successfully manage the risks resulting from any of these or other potential changes in our industries, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted.We are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.Our customer base, particularly in the semiconductor industry, historically has been highly concentrated due to corporate consolidation, acquisitions and business closures. In this environment, orders from a relatively limited number of manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a substantial portion of our sales. This concentration increases the impact that future business or technology changes within the foundry industry may have on our business, financial condition and operating results.•In a highly concentrated business environment, if a particular customer does not place an order, or if they delay or cancel orders, we may not be able to replace the business. Furthermore, because our products are configured to each customer’s specifications, any changes, delays or cancellations of orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. •As a result of this consolidation, the customers that survive the consolidation represent a greater portion of our sales and, consequently, have greater commercial negotiating leverage. Many of our large customers have more aggressive policies regarding engaging alternative, second-source suppliers for the products we offer and, in addition, may seek and, on occasion, receive pricing, payment, intellectual property-related or other commercial terms that may have an adverse impact on our business. Any of these changes could negatively impact our prices, customer orders, revenues and gross margins.•Certain customers have undergone significant ownership changes, created alliances with other companies, experienced management changes or have outsourced manufacturing activities, any of which may result in additional complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions. Any future change in ownership or management of our existing customers may result in similar challenges, including the possibility of the successor entity or new management deciding to select a competitor’s products.•The highly concentrated business environment also increases our exposure to risks related to the financial condition of each of our customers. To the extent our customers experience liquidity issues in the future, we may be required to incur additional bad debt expense with respect to receivables owed to us by those customers. In addition, customers with liquidity issues may be forced to reduce purchases of our equipment, delay deliveries of our products, discontinue operations or may be acquired by one of our customers, and in either case such event would have the effect of further consolidating our customer base. •Semiconductor manufacturers generally must commit significant resources to qualify, install and integrate process control and yield management equipment into a semiconductor production line. We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s process control and yield management equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time. Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer for that specific production line application and other similar production line applications if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment. Similarly, we expect it to be challenging for a competitor to sell its products to a given customer for a specific production line application if that customer initially selects our equipment.•Prices differ among the products we offer for different applications due to differences in features offered or manufacturing costs. If there is a shift in demand by our customers from our higher-priced to lower-priced products, our gross margin and revenue would decrease. In addition, when products are initially introduced, they tend to have higher costs because of initial development costs and lower production volumes relative to the previous product generation, which can impact gross margin.Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 57Table of ContentsThe semiconductor equipment industry has been cyclical. The purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and the semiconductor industry worldwide. If we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed.The timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. The historically cyclical nature of the primary industry in which we operate is largely a function of our customers’ capital spending patterns and need for expanded manufacturing capacity, which in turn are affected by factors such as capacity utilization, consumer demand for products, inventory levels and our customers’ access to capital. Cyclicality affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, in some cases, future expense levels. Our ability to recognize revenue from a particular customer may also be negatively impacted by the customer’s funding status, which could be weakened not only by adverse business conditions or inaccessibility to capital markets for any number of macroeconomic or company-specific reasons, but also by funding limitations imposed by the customer’s unique organizational structure. Any of these factors could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During periods of declining revenues, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. If we fail to respond, or if our attempts to respond fail to accomplish our intended results, then our business could be seriously harmed. Furthermore, any workforce reductions and cost reduction actions that we adopt in response to down cycles may result in additional restructuring charges, disruptions in our operations and loss of key personnel. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. Each of these factors could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.In addition, our management typically provides quarterly forecasts for certain financial metrics, which, when made, are based on business and operational forecasts that are believed to be reasonable at the time. These variations can occur for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, unexpected changes in the volume or timing of customer orders, product shipments or product acceptance; an inability to adjust our operations rapidly enough to adapt to changing business conditions; or a different than anticipated effective tax rate. The impact on our business of delays or cancellations of customer orders may be exacerbated by the short lead times that our customers expect between order placement and product shipment. This is because order delays and cancellations may lead not only to lower revenues, but also, due to the advance work we must do in anticipation of receiving a product order to meet the expected lead times, to significant inventory write-offs and manufacturing inefficiencies that decrease our gross margin. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our financial results for a particular quarter and could cause those results to differ materially from financial forecasts we have previously provided. We provide these forecasts with the intent of giving investors and analysts a better understanding of management’s expectations for the future, but those reviewing such forecasts must recognize that such forecasts are comprised of, and are themselves, forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. If our operating or financial results for a particular period differ from our forecasts or the expectations of investment analysts, or if we revise our forecasts, the market price of our common stock could decline. 58Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our Business Model and Capital StructureIf we do not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed.Success in the semiconductor equipment industry depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. The primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips. That driver appears to be slowing, which may cause semiconductor manufacturers to delay investments in equipment, investigate more complex device architectures, use new materials and develop innovative fabrication processes. These and other evolving customer plans and needs require us to respond with continued development programs and cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry-wide support. Technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate staffing of highly qualified employees. Our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, develop and introduce new products and solutions that successfully address changing customer needs, win market acceptance of these new products and solutions, and manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our failure to accurately predict evolving industry standards and develop as well as offer competitive technology solutions in a timely manner with cost-effective products could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance, features and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands. Substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a new product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. There can be no assurance that revenues from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements. In addition, we cannot be sure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. Our business will be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices or if the market in which we operate does not accept our products.In addition, the complexity of our products exposes us to other risks. In such a situation, the customer may be entitled to certain remedies, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results for various periods and, as a result, our stock price.We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from sales of inspection products. As a result, any delay or reduction of sales of these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The continued customer demand for these products and the development, introduction and market acceptance of new products and technologies are critical to our future success.Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. If we are unable to maintain our lead or protect our proprietary technology, we may lose valuable assets.Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. We own various United States and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. The process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. Other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies and obtain patents relating to our business that are similar or superior to our technology or may design around the patents we own, adversely affecting our business. In addition, we at times engage in collaborative technology development efforts with our customers and suppliers, and these collaborations may constitute a key component of certain of our ongoing technology and product research and development projects. The termination of any such collaboration, or delays caused by disputes or other unanticipated challenges that may arise in connection with any such collaboration, could significantly impair our research and development efforts, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. 59Table of ContentsWe also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. However, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or successfully deter infringement by third parties.While patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. We also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. However, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In any event, the extent to which we can protect our trade secrets through the use of confidentiality agreements is limited, and our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to innovate ahead of our competitors.Our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide.Our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. Some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support capabilities than we possess. We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. These competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products, including pricing such competitive tools significantly below our product offerings. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. The strength of our competitive positions in many of our existing markets is largely due to our leading technology, which is the result of continuing significant investments in product research and development. However, we may enter new markets, whether through acquisitions or new internal product development, in which competition is based primarily on product pricing, not technological superiority. Further, some new growth markets that emerge may not require leading technologies. Loss of competitive position in any of the markets we serve, or an inability to sell our products on favorable commercial terms in new markets we may enter, could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition.Our business would be harmed if we do not receive parts sufficient in number and performance to meet our production requirements and product specifications in a timely and cost-effective manner.We use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials. We generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. Because of the variability and uniqueness of customers’ orders, we do not maintain an extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, certain key parts are available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Also, key parts we obtain from some of our suppliers incorporate the suppliers’ proprietary intellectual property; in those cases we are increasingly reliant on third parties for high-performance, high-technology components, which reduces the amount of control we have over the availability and protection of the technology and intellectual property that is used in our products. In addition, if certain of our key suppliers experience liquidity issues and are forced to discontinue operations, which is a heightened risk during economic downturns, it could affect their ability to deliver parts and could result in delays for our products. Similarly, especially with respect to suppliers of high-technology components, our suppliers themselves have increasingly complex supply chains, and delays or disruptions at any stage of their supply chains may prevent us from obtaining parts in a timely manner and result in delays for our products. Our operating results and business may be adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain parts to meet our production requirements and product specifications, or if we are only able to do so on unfavorable terms. Furthermore, a supplier may discontinue production of a particular part for any number of reasons, including the supplier’s financial condition or business operational decisions, which would require us to purchase, in a single transaction, a large number of such discontinued parts in order to ensure that a continuous supply of such parts remains available to our customers. Such “end-of-life” parts purchases could result in significant expenditures by us in a particular period, and ultimately any unused parts may result in a significant inventory write-off, either of which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the applicable periods. Our business plan is developed based on a number of factors, many of which require estimates and assumptions, such as our expectations of the economic environment, future business levels, our customers’ willingness and ability to place orders, lead-times, and future revenue and cash flow. Our budgeted operating expenses, for example, are based in part on our future revenue expectations. Similarly, if we fail to manage our expenses effectively or otherwise fail to maintain rigorous cost controls, we could experience greater than anticipated expenses during an operating period, which would also negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to operate our business consistent with our business plan, our operating results in any period may be significantly and adversely impacted. Such an outcome could cause customers, suppliers or investors to view us as less stable, or could cause us to fail to meet financial analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates, any of which could have an adverse impact on our stock price.In addition, our management is constantly striving to balance the requirements and demands of our customers with the availability of resources, the need to manage our operating model and other factors. In furtherance of those efforts, we often must exercise discretion and judgment as to the timing and prioritization of manufacturing, deliveries, installations and payment scheduling. Any such decisions may impact our ability to recognize revenue, including the fiscal period during which such revenue may be recognized, with respect to such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or stock price.Our capital structure is highly leveraged.As of December 31, 2017, we had $2.50 billion aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness, consisting of $2.25 billion aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes and $250.0 million borrowed under our Revolving Credit Facility, which includes an additional $500.0 million in unfunded commitments. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal of our current indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, our credit rating, the ongoing interest rate environment and the other risk factors discussed in this section. Factors that can affect our credit rating include changes in our operating performance, the economic environment, conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries, our financial position, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, and our business strategy. In the Change of Control Offer, we will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the notes repurchased, up to, but not including, the date of repurchase. We cannot make any assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources at such time or will be able to arrange financing to pay the repurchase price of that series of notes. Our ability to repurchase that series of notes in such event may be limited by law, by the indenture associated with that series of notes, or by the terms of other agreements to which we may be party at such time. If we fail to repurchase that series of notes as required by the terms of such notes, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing that series of notes which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under other of our obligations.Borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a floating rate and, therefore, any increase in interest rates would require us to pay additional interest, which may have an adverse effect on the value and liquidity of our debt and the market price of our common stock could decline. The interest rate under our Revolving Credit Facility is also subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades. Additionally, under our Revolving Credit Facility, we are required to comply with affirmative and negative covenants, which include the maintenance of certain financial ratios, the details of which can be found in Note 7, “Debt,” to our condensed consolidated financial statements. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we will be in default and our borrowings will become immediately due and payable. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources or we will be able to arrange financing to repay our borrowings at such time. In addition, certain of our domestic subsidiaries are required to guarantee our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. In the event that we default on our borrowings, these domestic subsidiaries shall be liable for our borrowings, which could disrupt our operations and result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or stock price.Our leveraged capital structure may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and net income per share. Our ability to satisfy our future expenses as well as our new debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. Furthermore, our future operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our future expenses and service our new debt obligations, which may impact our ability to manage our capital structure to preserve and maintain our investment grade rating. If our future operations do not generate sufficient cash flows, we may need to access the unfunded portion of our Revolving Credit Facility of $500.0 million or enter into new financing arrangements to obtain necessary funds. If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms. Any additional borrowing under our revolving credit facility will place further pressure on us to comply with the financial covenants. If we fail to make a payment associated with our debt obligations, we could be in default on such debt, and such a default could cause us to be in default on our other obligations. 62Table of ContentsThere can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts.Our Board of Directors first instituted a quarterly dividend during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. Since that time, we have announced a number of increases in the amount of our quarterly dividend level as well as payment of a special cash dividend that was declared and substantially paid in the second quarter of our fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price.We are exposed to risks related to our commercial terms and conditions, including our indemnification of third parties, as well as the performance of our products.Although our standard commercial documentation sets forth the terms and conditions that we intend to apply to commercial transactions with our business partners, counterparties to such transactions may not explicitly agree to our terms and conditions. In situations where we engage in business with a third party without an explicit master agreement regarding the applicable terms and conditions, or where the commercial documentation applicable to the transaction is subject to varying interpretations, we may have disputes with those third parties regarding the applicable terms and conditions of our business relationship with them. Such disputes could lead to a deterioration of our commercial relationship with those parties, costly and time-consuming litigation, or additional concessions or obligations being offered by us to resolve such disputes, or could impact our revenue or cost recognition. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, in our commercial agreements, from time to time in the normal course of business we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers, suppliers and lessors, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. We may be compelled to enter into or accrue for probable settlements of alleged indemnification obligations, or we may be subject to potential liability arising from our customers’ involvements in legal disputes. In addition, notwithstanding the provisions related to limitations on our liability that we seek to include in our business agreements, the counterparties to such agreements may dispute our interpretation or application of such provisions, and a court of law may not interpret or apply such provisions in our favor, any of which could result in an obligation for us to pay material damages to third parties and engage in costly legal proceedings. It is difficult to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under any indemnification obligations, whether or not asserted, due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in any particular claim. Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.We are also exposed to potential costs associated with unexpected product performance issues. Our products and production processes are extremely complex and thus could contain unexpected product defects, especially when products are first introduced. These costs could be substantial and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, our reputation with our customers could be damaged as a result of such product defects, which could reduce demand for our products and negatively impact our business. 63Table of ContentsFurthermore, we occasionally enter into volume purchase agreements with our larger customers, and these agreements may provide for certain volume purchase incentives, such as credits toward future purchases. We believe that these arrangements are beneficial to our long-term business, as they are designed to encourage our customers to purchase higher volumes of our products. However, these arrangements could require us to recognize a reduced level of revenue for the products that are initially purchased, to account for the potential future credits or other volume purchase incentives. Our volume purchase agreements require significant estimation for the amounts to be accrued depending upon the estimate of volume of future purchases. As such, we are required to update our estimates of the accruals on a periodic basis. Until the earnings process is complete, out estimates could differ in comparison to actuals. As a result, these volume purchase arrangements, while expected to be beneficial to our business over time, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in near-term periods, including the revenue we can recognize on product sales and therefore our gross margins.In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, we have made no significant accruals in our condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in supporting an audit or inspection, or defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes.There are risks associated with our receipt of government funding for research and development.We are exposed to additional risks related to our receipt of external funding for certain strategic development programs from various governments and government agencies, both domestically and internationally. Governments and government agencies typically have the right to terminate funding programs at any time in their sole discretion, or a project may be terminated by mutual agreement if the parties determine that the project’s goals or milestones are not being achieved, so there is no assurance that these sources of external funding will continue to be available to us in the future. In addition, under the terms of these government grants, the applicable granting agency typically has the right to audit the costs that we incur, directly and indirectly, in connection with such programs. Any such audit could result in modifications to, or even termination of, the applicable government funding program. For example, if an audit were to identify any costs as being improperly allocated to the applicable program, those costs would not be reimbursed, and any such costs that had already been reimbursed would have to be refunded. We do not know the outcome of any future audits. In addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected cost savings or other benefits of our restructuring plans, or do so within the expected time frame. If we again restructure our organization and business processes, implement additional cost reduction actions or discontinue certain business operations, we may take additional, potentially material, restructuring charges related to, among other things, employee terminations or exit costs. We may also be required to write-off additional inventory if our product build plans or usage of service inventory decline. Such additional write-offs could result in material charges. 64Table of ContentsIn the past, we recorded a material charge related to the impairment of our goodwill and purchased intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the net fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized, but is instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with authoritative guidance for goodwill. Purchased intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives based on economic benefit if known or using the straight-line method, and are reviewed for impairment in accordance with authoritative guidance for long-lived assets. The valuation of goodwill and intangible assets requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including revenue and market growth, operating cash flows, market multiples, and discount rates. In addition, we maintain bank accounts with several domestic and foreign financial institutions, any of which may prove not to be financially viable. If we were to stop entering into these factoring arrangements, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted by delays or failures in collecting trade receivables. However, by entering into these arrangements, and by engaging these financial institutions for banking services, we are exposed to additional risks. If any of these financial institutions experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of our factoring or deposit arrangements, we may experience material financial losses due to the failure of such arrangements or a lack of access to our funds, any of which could have an adverse impact upon our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.We are subject to the risks of additional government actions in the event we were to breach the terms of any settlement arrangement into which we have entered.In connection with the settlement of certain government actions and other legal proceedings related to our historical stock option practices, we have explicitly agreed as a condition to such settlements that we will comply with certain laws, such as the books and records provisions of the federal securities laws. If we were to violate any such law, we might not only be subject to the significant penalties applicable to such violation, but our past settlements may also be impacted by such violation, which could give rise to additional government actions or other legal proceedings. Any such additional actions or proceedings may require us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses, and may divert attention and resources from the operation of our business. These expenditures and diversions, as well as an adverse resolution of any such action or proceeding, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.General Commercial, Operational, Financial and Regulatory RisksWe are exposed to risks associated with a weakening in the condition of the financial markets and the global economy.The markets for semiconductors, and therefore our business, are ultimately driven by the global demand for electronic devices by consumers and businesses. Economic uncertainty frequently leads to reduced consumer and business spending, which caused our customers to decrease, cancel or delay their equipment and service orders from us in the economic slowdown during fiscal year 2009. In addition, the tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit that accompanied that slowdown made it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell. 65Table of ContentsIn addition, a decline in the condition of the global financial markets could adversely impact the market values or liquidity of our investments. Our investment portfolio includes corporate and government securities, money market funds and other types of debt and equity investments. If the market value of such investments were to decline, or if we were to have to sell some of our investments under illiquid market conditions, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge on such investments or a loss on such sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.If we are unable to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from difficult macroeconomic conditions, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.A majority of our annual revenues are derived from outside the United States, and we maintain significant operations outside the United States. We are exposed to numerous risks as a result of the international nature of our business and operations.A majority of our annual revenues are derived from outside the United States, and we maintain significant operations outside the United States. We expect that these conditions will continue in the foreseeable future. 66Table of ContentsWe might be involved in claims or disputes related to intellectual property or other confidential information that may be costly to resolve, prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology and seriously harm our operating results and financial condition.As is typical in the semiconductor equipment industry, from time to time we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights which they believe cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information. In addition, we occasionally receive notification from customers who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to intellectual property claims made against such customers by third parties. With respect to intellectual property infringement disputes, our customary practice is to evaluate such infringement assertions and to consider whether to seek licenses where appropriate. However, we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms or that costly litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. The inability to obtain necessary licenses or other rights on reasonable terms could seriously harm our results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of future legal proceedings, claims or investigations. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations or requirements may subject us to a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of certain of our business activities, limitations on our ability to sell our products, obligations to remediate environmental contamination, and criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. Further, we use hazardous and other regulated materials that subject us to risks of strict liability for damages caused by any release, regardless of fault. We also face increasing complexity in our manufacturing, product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and prospective requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including restrictions on lead and other substances and requirements to track the sources of certain metals and other materials. The cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other regulatory restrictions or contractual obligations could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and ability to conduct our business. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings or claims, which could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and ability to operate our business.We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our key employees, our sales and product development could be harmed.Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. We generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate and retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our current and future needs, our business and operations could be harmed.We outsource a number of services to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions. Disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers could adversely impact our operations.We outsource a number of services, including our transportation, information systems management and logistics management of spare parts and certain accounting and procurement functions, to domestic and overseas third-party service providers. While outsourcing arrangements may lower our cost of operations, they also reduce our direct control over the services rendered. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products delivered or services rendered, on our ability to quickly respond to changing market conditions, or on our ability to ensure compliance with all applicable domestic and foreign laws and regulations. In addition, many of these outsourced service providers, including certain hosted software applications that we use for confidential data storage, employ cloud computing technology for such storage. These providers’ cloud computing systems may be susceptible to “cyber incidents,” such as intentional cyber attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data or inadvertent cyber-security compromises, which are outside of our control. This data includes confidential information, transactional information and intellectual property belonging to us, our customers and our business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals. We allocate significant resources to network security, data encryption and other measures to protect our information systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse. Despite our ongoing efforts to enhance our network security measures, our information systems are susceptible to computer viruses, cyber-related security breaches and similar disruptions from unauthorized intrusions, tampering, misuse, criminal acts, including phishing, or other events or developments that we may be unable to anticipate or fail to mitigate and are subject to the inherent vulnerabilities of network security measures. We have experienced cyber-related attacks in the past, and may experience cyber-related attacks in the future. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee errors, malfeasance, or otherwise. Third parties may also attempt to influence employees, users, suppliers or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our, our customers’ or business partners’ data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to the information systems change frequently, and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.Any of such occurrences could result in disruptions to our operations; misappropriation, corruption or theft of confidential information, including intellectual property and other critical data, of KLA-Tencor, our customers and other business partners; misappropriation of funds and company assets; reduced value of our investments in research, development and engineering; litigation with, or payment of damages to, third parties; reputational damage; costs to comply with regulatory inquiries or actions; data privacy issues; costs to rebuild our internal information systems; and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. 68Table of ContentsWe carry insurance that provides some protection against the potential losses arising from a cybersecurity incident but it will not likely cover all such losses, and the losses that it does not cover may be significant.We rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operations. Our inability to use or access our information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact our business operations.Our global operations are dependent upon certain information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.Acquisitions are an important element of our strategy but, because of the uncertainties involved, we may not find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses. We are also exposed to risks in connection with strategic alliances into which we may enter.In addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, part of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions and acquire new technologies from external sources. There can be no assurance that we will find suitable acquisition candidates or that acquisitions we complete will be successful. In addition, we may use equity to finance future acquisitions, which would increase our number of shares outstanding and be dilutive to current stockholders.If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses or if acquired businesses perform poorly, then our business and financial results may suffer. It is possible that the businesses we have acquired, as well as businesses that we may acquire in the future, may perform worse than expected or prove to be more difficult to integrate and manage than anticipated. In addition, we may lose key employees of the acquired companies. These alliances typically require significant investments of capital and exchange of proprietary, highly sensitive information. The success of these alliances depends on various factors over which we may have limited or no control and requires ongoing and effective cooperation with our strategic partners. Mergers and acquisitions and strategic alliances are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 69Table of ContentsDisruption of our manufacturing facilities or other operations, or in the operations of our customers, due to earthquake, flood, other natural catastrophic events, health epidemics or terrorism could result in cancellation of orders, delays in deliveries or other business activities, or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business.We have significant manufacturing operations in the United States, Singapore, Israel, Germany and China. In addition, our business is international in nature, with our sales, service and administrative personnel and our customers located in numerous countries throughout the world. Operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors, as well as our other operations and those of our customers, are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, health epidemics, fire, earthquake, volcanic eruptions, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruption could cause delays in, among other things, shipments of products to our customers, our ability to perform services requested by our customers, or the installation and acceptance of our products at customer sites. Our California operations are now primarily centralized in our Milpitas facility. The consolidation of our California operations into a single campus could further concentrate the risks related to any of the disruptive events described above, such as acts of war or terrorism, earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters, if any such event were to impact our Milpitas facility.We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. If international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed.The threat of terrorism targeted at, or acts of war in, the regions of the world in which we do business increases the uncertainty in our markets. Any act of terrorism or war that affects the economy or the semiconductor industry could adversely affect our business. Increased international political instability in various parts of the world, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of terrorist attacks may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. We maintain significant manufacturing and research and development operations in Israel, an area that has historically experienced a high degree of political instability, and we are therefore exposed to risks associated with future instability in that region. Such instability could also have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. If international political instability continues or increases in any region in which we do business, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war.We self-insure certain risks including earthquake risk. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss.We purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain risks are uninsurable, are insurable only at significant cost or cannot be mitigated with insurance. Accordingly, we may experience a loss that is not covered by insurance, either because we do not carry applicable insurance or because the loss exceeds the applicable policy amount or is less than the deductible amount of the applicable policy. For example, we do not currently hold earthquake insurance. An earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, a significant portion of which are conducted in California, an area highly susceptible to earthquakes. It could also significantly delay our research and engineering efforts on new products, much of which is also conducted in California. We take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. We self-insure earthquake risks because we believe this is a prudent financial decision based on our cash reserves and the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. Certain other risks are also self-insured either based on a similar cost-benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss. 70Table of ContentsWe are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Although we hedge certain currency risks, we may still be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries.We have some exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the Japanese Yen and the euro. We have international subsidiaries that operate and sell our products globally. In addition, an increasing proportion of our manufacturing activities are conducted outside of the United States, and many of the costs associated with such activities are denominated in foreign currencies. We routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign currencies with certain financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations, but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that these hedges are inadequate, or if there are significant currency exchange rate fluctuations in currencies for which we do not have hedges in place, our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, if a financial counterparty to our hedges experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience material financial losses.We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and the market values of our portfolio investments; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings. In addition, we and our stockholders are exposed to risks related to the volatility of the market for our common stock.Our investment portfolio primarily consists of both corporate and government debt securities that are susceptible to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. As market interest rates and bond yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. We believe we have the ability to realize the full value of all these investments upon maturity. However, an impairment of the fair market value of our investments, even if unrealized, must be reflected in our financial statements for the applicable period and may therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period.In addition, the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly during recent years. The trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to various factors, including without limitation conditions in the semiconductor industry and other industries in which we operate, fluctuations in the global economy or capital markets, our operating results or other performance metrics, or adverse consequences experienced by us as a result of any of the risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable and that our products and practices comply with applicable regulations, the final determination of any such audit and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals related to income taxes and other contingencies. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.A change in our effective tax rate can have a significant adverse impact on our business.We earn profits in, and are therefore potentially subject to taxes in, the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Singapore, Israel and the Cayman Islands, the countries in which we earn the majority of our non-U.S. profits. Due to economic, political or other conditions, tax rates in those jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. A number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates, such as the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the tax rates imposed by those jurisdictions; expiration of tax holidays in certain jurisdictions that are not renewed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of earnings from outside the United States for which we have not previously provided for United States taxes. A change in our effective tax rate can materially and adversely impact our results from operations. In addition, recent changes to U.S. tax laws will significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. To address the impact of the recent U.S. tax law changes, we recorded a provisional tax amount of $340.9 million for the transitional tax liability and recorded a provisional tax amount of $101.1 million to re-measure certain deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the enactment of the Act. These provisional tax amounts recorded are based on our reasonable estimate until we fully complete our assessment and we may need additional information to complete our assessment. Our selection of an accounting policy with respect to the new GILTI tax rules will depend, in part, on analyzing our global income to determine whether we expect to have future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI and, if so, what the impact is expected to be. A significant portion of the additional provisions for income taxes we have made due to the enactment of the Act is payable by us over a period of up to eight years. As result, our cash flows from operating activities will be adversely impacted until the additional tax provisions are paid in full. Compliance with federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ requirements, has become increasingly complex, and the significant attention and expense we must devote to those areas may have an adverse impact on our business.Federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. Adoption of new standards may require changes to our processes, accounting systems, and internal controls. Difficulties encountered during adoption could result in internal control deficiencies or delay the reporting of our financial results. In addition, the passing of the Act in December 2017 caused us to significantly increase our provision for income taxes, which had a material adverse effect on our net income for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017. Further interpretations of the Act from the government and regulatory organizations may change our tax expense provided for our transitional tax liability and deferred tax adjustments as well as our provision liability or accounting treatment of the provisional liability which may potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts. Shares are reported based on the trade date of the applicable repurchase. Future repurchases of our common stock under our repurchase program may be effected through various different repurchase transaction structures, including isolated open market transactions or systematic repurchase plans.ITEM 3.DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIESNone.ITEM 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURESNot applicable.ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATIONNone.