EmployerIdentification No. PART I. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. The Company’s reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K are available online at the Securities and Exchange Commission website on the Internet. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. The content on any website referred to in this Form 10-Q is not a part of or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-Q unless expressly noted.The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Lam Research and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company’s current fiscal year will end June 30, 2019 and includes 53 weeks. The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. The Company adopted ASC 606 on the first day of the current fiscal year, June 25, 2018, under the modified retrospective approach, applying the amendments to prospective reporting periods. Results for reporting periods beginning on or after June 25, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under ASC 605. These amendments change the accounting for and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee. The amendments provide clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes. The Company’s adoption of this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.In August 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” The amendment provides and clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows to eliminate diversity in practice. The Company adopted this standard update in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a retrospective transition method. The Company’s adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.In October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a modified-retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings. The Company’s adoption of this standard resulted in a $0.4 million decrease to retained earnings and a corresponding $0.4 million increase to other assets on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.In November 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows – Restricted Cash.” This standard update requires that restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included in cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown in the statement of cash flows. The Company adopted this standard 9Table of Contentsin the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, using a retrospective transition method to each period presented. Consequently, the update eliminates the stranded tax effects that were created as a result of the historical U.S. federal corporate income tax rate to the newly enacted U.S. federal corporate income tax rate. The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a modified-retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings. The amendments are part of the SEC’s efforts to improve disclosure effectiveness and were focused on eliminating disclosure requirements that have become redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated, or superseded. The Company adopted these amendments in the first quarter of fiscal Year 2019 and as a result the Company has included a Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity to this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The Company expects that the Company’s 2019 annual report on Form 10-K will omit a number of disclosures previously required in Part II. Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, as well as other minor changes.Updates Not Yet EffectiveIn January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” The FASB issued a subsequent amendment to the initial guidance in January 2018 within ASU 2018-01. The core principle of the standard requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. The amendment offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions. Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The Company is required to adopt these standards starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified-retrospective approach on the earliest period presented. The Company currently believes the most significant impact upon adoption will be the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets for those leases currently classified as operating leases. As part of the Company’s assessment and implementation plan, the Company is evaluating and implementing changes to its procedures and controls.In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable. The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 using a modified-retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted. 10Table of ContentsIdentify the performance obligations in the contract. Performance obligations include sales of systems, spare parts, and services; as well as, installation and training services included in customer contracts, both of which have been deemed immaterial in the context of the contract.Determine the transaction price. The transaction price for the Company’s contracts with its customers consists of both fixed and variable consideration provided it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty related to variable consideration is resolved. Fixed consideration includes amounts to be contractually billed to the customer while variable consideration includes estimates for discounts and credits for future usage which are based on contractual terms outlined in volume purchase agreements and other factors known at the time. The Company generally invoices customers at shipment and for professional services either as provided or upon meeting certain milestones. Customer invoices are generally due within 30 to 90 days after issuance. The Company’s contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the transfer of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year.Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices are based on multiple factors including, but not limited to historical discounting trends for products and services and pricing practices in different geographies.Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation. Revenue for systems and spares are recognized at a point in time, which is generally upon shipment or delivery. The Company’s material operating segments qualify for aggregation due to their customer base and similarities in economic characteristics, nature of products and services, and processes for procurement, manufacturing, and distribution. For geographical reporting, revenue is attributed to the geographic location in which the customers’ facilities are located. An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price. An RSU award is an agreement to issue a set number of shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting. The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition. The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years. U.S. tax reform reduces the U.S. federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%, mandates payment of a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. The Company has recorded what it believes to be reasonable estimates and the provisional activity is subject to further adjustments under SAB 118. Such adjustments were made during the September 2018 quarter as outlined below, incorporating new information into the estimates; the Company may make further adjustments as new information is made available. In addition, for significant items for which the Company could not make a reasonable estimate, no provisional activity was recorded. Such an adjustment was recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of the period ended September 23, 2018, incorporating new information into the estimate; the Company may make further adjustments as new information is made available. The adjustment recorded was $36.5 million; revised total estimate is now $919.5 million. The Company elected to pay the one-time transition tax over a period of eight years. The GILTI provision imposes taxes on foreign earnings in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets. The Company has calculated the impact of the GILTI provision on current year earnings and has included the impact in the effective tax rate. In addition, the Company evaluated whether deferred taxes should be recorded in relation to the GILTI provision or if the tax should be recorded in the period in which it occurs. Based on current interpretation, the Company could choose either method as an accounting policy election. The Company made an accounting policy election in the September 2018 quarter to record deferred taxes in relation to the GILTI provision. The Company recorded a provisional benefit for the accounting policy election of $48.0 million. Due to the complexity of the GILTI provision, the Company has not yet finalized 13Table of Contentsits analysis of GILTI. Therefore, the provisional amount which was recorded related to the accounting policy election is subject to adjustment during the measurement period under SAB 118.The Company is in various stages of examinations in connection with all of its tax audits worldwide, and it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be settled. It is reasonably possible that over the next 12-month period the Company may experience an increase or decrease in its unrecognized tax benefits as a result of tax examinations or lapses of statute of limitations. The change in unrecognized tax benefits may range up to $31.0 million. NOTE 7 — NET INCOME PER SHAREBasic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the treasury stock method, for dilutive stock options, restricted stock units, convertible notes, and warrants. Dilutive shares outstanding include the effect of the convertible notes. Refer to Note 12 - Long-term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the Company’s convertible notes. The following table reconciles the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted computations for net income per share. The Company’s mutual funds, which are related to the Company’s obligations under the deferred compensation plan, are classified as trading securities. Investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.A fair value hierarchy has been established that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The level of an asset or liability in the hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The estimated fair value of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their carrying value due to the short period of time to their maturities. The estimated fair values of capital lease obligations approximate their carrying value as the substantial majority of these obligations have interest rates that adjust to market rates on a periodic basis. Management assesses the fair value of investments in debt securities that are not actively traded through consideration of interest rates and their impact on the present value of the cash flows to be received from the investments. The Company also considers whether changes in the credit ratings of the issuer could impact the assessment of fair value. Additionally, the Company also considers factors such as the Company’s intent to sell the security and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. The Company did not recognize any losses on investments due to other-than-temporary impairments during the three months ended September 23, 2018 or September 24, 2017. The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swap arrangements to manage interest rate risk. The counterparties to these derivatives are large global financial institutions that the Company believes are creditworthy, and therefore, it does not consider the risk of counterparty nonperformance to be material.Cash Flow HedgesThe Company’s financial position is routinely subjected to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar transactions or cash flows, primarily from Japanese yen-denominated revenues and euro- denominated and Korean won-denominated expenses. The Company’s policy is to mitigate the foreign exchange risk arising from the fluctuations in the value of these non-U.S. dollar denominated transactions or cash flows through a foreign currency cash flow hedging program, using forward contracts and foreign currency options that generally expire within 12 months and no later than 24 months. These instruments are designated as cash flow hedges at inception and are settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt. At inception and at each quarter-end, hedges are tested prospectively and retrospectively for effectiveness using regression analysis. Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts due to changes in time value are included in the assessment of effectiveness. To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship must meet criteria relating to both the derivative instrument and the hedged item. These criteria include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows will be measured. There were no material gains or losses during the three months ended September 23, 2018 and September 24, 2017 associated with forecasted transactions that failed to occur. Additionally, there were no significant gains or losses during the three months ended September 23, 2018 and September 24, 2017 associated with ineffectiveness.To receive hedge accounting treatment, all hedging relationships are formally documented at the inception of the hedge, and the hedges must be tested to demonstrate an expectation of providing highly effective offsetting changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions. Consequently the Company’s results of operations are not subject to fluctuation as a result of changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments. If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges. If this were to occur, future changes in the fair values of the Company’s derivative instruments would be recognized in earnings. Additionally, related amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income would be reclassified to income immediately. As of September 23, 2018, the Company had a net gain of $6.2 million 17Table of Contentsaccumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months. Additionally, as of September 23, 2018, the Company had a net loss of $2.2 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to interest rate contracts which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 6.5 years. Fair Value HedgesThe Company has interest rate contracts whereby the Company receives fixed rates and pays variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates, resulting in a net increase or decrease to interest expense, a component of other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. These interest rate contracts are designated as fair value hedges and hedge against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio. The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap. Therefore, the derivative is considered to be effective at achieving offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged liability, and no ineffectiveness is recognized. Balance Sheet HedgesThe Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables. These forward contracts are not designated for hedge accounting treatment. However, the Company has elected to present the derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis on its balance sheet. As of September 23, 2018, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange and interest rate contracts would be an offset to assets and liabilities by $6.2 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $5.2 million and net derivative liability of $31.0 million. As of June 24, 2018, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange contracts would be an offset to both assets and liabilities by $5.6 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $2.1 million and a net derivative liability of $34.4 million. Cash is placed on deposit at large global financial institutions. Such deposits may be in excess of insured limits. Management believes that the financial institutions that hold the Company’s cash are creditworthy and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to these balances.The Company’s overall portfolio of available-for-sale securities must maintain an average minimum rating of “AA-” or “Aa3” as rated by Standard and Poor’s, Fitch Ratings, or Moody’s Investor Services. To ensure diversification and minimize concentration, the Company’s policy limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution or commercial issuer.The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on foreign currency and interest rate hedge contracts that are used to mitigate the effect of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and on contracts related to structured share repurchase arrangements. System shipments to customers in Japan, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance, are classified as finished goods inventory and carried at cost until title transfers. As a result, the 2041 Notes were classified in current liabilities and a portion of the equity component, associated with the convertible notes representing the unamortized discount, was classified in temporary equity on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Upon closure of the conversion period, the notes not converted will be reclassified back into noncurrent liabilities and the temporary equity will be reclassified into permanent equity. The Company pays cash interest at an annual rate of 2.625%, on a semi-annual basis on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The 2041 Notes also have a contingent interest payment provision that may require the Company to pay additional interest, up to 0.60% per year, based on certain thresholds, beginning with the semi-annual interest payment on May 15, 2021, and upon the occurrence of certain events, as outlined in the indenture governing the 2041 Notes.23Table of ContentsThe Company separately accounts for the liability and equity components of the 2041 Notes. The initial debt components of the 2041 Notes were valued based on the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature, which equals the effective interest rate on the liability component disclosed in the table below, respectively. The equity component was initially valued equal to the principle value of the notes, less the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without a conversion feature, which equated to the initial debt discount.The 2041 Notes may be redeemed on or after May 21, 2021 at a price equal to outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid interest if the last reported sales price of common shares has been equal to or more than 150% of the then applicable conversion price for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days prior to the redemption notice date. Under certain circumstances, the 2041 Notes may be converted into shares of the Company’s Common Stock. The number of shares each debenture is convertible into is based on conversion rates, disclosed in the table below. The principal value of the 2041 Note conversions in the three months ended September 23, 2018, was approximately $79.4 million. During the quarter ended September 23, 2018, and in the subsequent period through October 19, 2018, the Company received notice of conversion of an additional $6.0 million principal value of 2041 Notes. The warrants settlement is contractually defined as net share settlement. The exercise price is adjusted for certain corporate events, including dividends on the Company’s Common Stock. The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.75% and 3.80%, on the 2020 Notes and 2025 Notes, respectively, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year. During the year ended June 26, 2016, the Company entered into a series of interest rate contracts hedging the fair value of a portion of the 2025 Notes par value, whereby the Company receives a fixed rate and pays a variable 24Table of Contentsrate based on a certain benchmark interest rate. Refer to Note 8 - Financial Instruments for additional information regarding these interest rate contracts. The Company may redeem the Senior Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after February 15, 2020, for the 2020 Notes and on or after December 24, 2024, for the 2025 Notes. The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.80% on the 2021 Notes on a semi-annual basis on June 15 and December 15 of each year. The Company may redeem the 2021 Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after May 15, 2021. The net proceeds from the commercial paper program will be used for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of the Company’s Common Stock from time to time and under the Company’s stock repurchase program. As of September 23, 2018, borrowings under the CP Program totaled $360.0 million, with a weighted-average interest rate of 2.30% and maturities of 90 days or less. Amounts available under the CP Program may be re-borrowed.Revolving Credit FacilityOn October 13, 2017, the Company entered into Amendment No. Among other things, the Amended Credit Agreement provides for a $500 million increase to the Company’s revolving credit facility, from $750 million to $1.25 billion with a syndicate of lenders. The Amended Credit Agreement provides for an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion. Principal and any accrued and unpaid interest is due and payable upon maturity. Additionally, the Company will pay the lenders a quarterly commitment fee that varies based on the Company’s credit rating. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains affirmative covenants, negative covenants, financial covenants and events of default. As of September 23, 2018, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and was in compliance with all financial covenants.25Table of ContentsInterest CostThe following table presents the amount of interest cost recognized relating to both the contractual interest coupon and amortization of the debt discount, issuance costs, and effective portion of interest rate contracts with respect to the Senior Notes, convertible notes, the term loan agreement, commercial paper, and the revolving credit facility during the three months ended September 23, 2018, and September 24, 2017. Certain of the Company’s facility leases for buildings located at its Fremont, California headquarters, Tualatin, Oregon campus, and certain other facility leases provide the Company with options to extend the leases for additional periods or to purchase the facilities. The Company was required to maintain cash collateral in an aggregate of approximately $250.0 million in separate interest-bearing accounts as security for the Company’s obligations. These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 23, 2018.During the term of the Operating Leases and when the terms of the Operating Leases expire, the property subject to those Operating Leases may be remarketed. The Company has guaranteed to the lessor that each property will have a certain minimum residual value. The aggregate guarantee made by the Company under the Operating Leases is generally no more than approximately $220.4 million; however, under certain default circumstances, the guarantee with regard to an Operating Lease may be 100% of the lessor’s aggregate investment in the applicable property, which in no case will exceed $250.0 million, in the aggregate.Other GuaranteesThe Company has issued certain indemnifications to its lessors for taxes and general liability under some of its agreements. The Company has entered into certain insurance contracts that are intended to limit its exposure to such indemnifications. As of September 23, 2018, the Company had not recorded any liability in connection with these indemnifications, as it does not believe that it is probable that any amounts will be paid under these guarantees.Generally, the Company indemnifies, under pre-determined conditions and limitations, its customers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights by the Company’s products or services. The Company seeks to limit its liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations. The Company does not believe that it is probable that any material amounts will be paid under these guarantees.The Company provides guarantees and standby letters of credit to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated during the ordinary course of business. As of September 23, 2018, the maximum potential amount of future payments that it could be required to make under these arrangements and letters of credit was $26.1 million. The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid.In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors, consistent with its Bylaws and Articles of Incorporation; and under California law, the Company is required to provide indemnification to all its employees for actions within the scope of their employment. Although the Company maintains insurance contracts that cover some of the potential liability associated with these indemnification agreements, there is no guarantee that all such liabilities will be 26Table of Contentscovered. The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under such indemnification agreements or statutory obligations.WarrantiesThe Company provides standard warranties on its systems. The Company accrues for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. Based on current information, the Company does not believe that a material loss from known matters is probable and therefore has not recorded an accrual for litigation or other contingencies related to existing legal proceedings.NOTE 14 — STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAMIn March 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of Common Stock. The new authorization increased the share repurchase authorization granted in November 2017 to an aggregate of $4.0 billion of Common Stock, and supplements the remaining balances from any prior authorizations. These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law. This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The Company took an initial delivery of approximately 5.8 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on August 14, 2018. The total number of shares to be received under the August 2018 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement for the August 2018 ASR is expected to be completed no later than February 15, 2019. Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this report are specifically identified as forward-looking, by use of phrases and words such as “believe,” “estimated,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “probable,” “intend,” “plan,” “aim,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “will,” “continue,” and other future-oriented terms. The identification of certain statements as “forward-looking” does not mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. Such risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this report and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events.Documents To Review In Connection With Management’s Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of OperationsFor a full understanding of our financial position and results of operations for the three months ended September 23, 2018, and the related Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, you should also read the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes presented in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes in our 2018 Form 10-K.EXECUTIVE SUMMARYLam Research is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines. Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic 29Table of Contentsproducts, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive devices, storage devices, and networking equipment. Our vision is to realize full value from natural technology extensions of our company. Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory, DRAM memory, and logic devices. We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success. Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers’ business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits on a wafer. This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps. Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale. Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.Demand from the Cloud, Internet of Things, and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost-efficient semiconductors. At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional scaling. These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical 3D scaling strategies as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks. We believe we are in a strong position with our leadership and competency in deposition, etch, and clean to facilitate some of the most significant innovations in semiconductor device manufacturing. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2018 quarter decreased as compared to the June 2018 quarter primarily due to lower factory utilization and customer and product mix. Operating expenses in the September 2018 quarter decreased compared to the June 2018 quarter mainly due to a decrease in variable compensation, outside services and supplies.Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances decreased to $3.9 billion as of September 23, 2018, compared to $5.2 billion as of June 24, 2018; driven by $1.7 billion of share repurchases, including net share settlement on employee stock-based compensation and $174 million of dividends paid to stockholders, offset by cash generated by operations of approximately $720 million. Employee headcount as of September 23, 2018, was approximately 11,000. Our deferred revenue balance at September 23, 2018 decreased to $626 million, as compared to $994 million as of June 24, 2018, as a result of our adoption of ASC 606, as well as timing of revenue recognition. Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to customers in Japan, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The spending in the September 2018 quarter decreased compared to the June 2018 quarter due to an $18 million decrease in variable compensation and a $7 million decrease in supplies. Changes in the market value of securities in the portfolio drove the noted variability in the gains on assets related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan. Foreign exchange fluctuations are primarily due to currency movements against portions of our unhedged balance sheet exposures. U.S. tax reform reduces the U.S. federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%, mandates payment of a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. We recorded what we believe to be reasonable estimates and the provisional activity is subject to further adjustments under SAB 118. Such adjustments were made during the 32Table of ContentsSeptember 2018 quarter as outlined below, incorporating new information into the estimates; we may make further adjustments as new information is made available. In addition, for significant items for which we could not make a reasonable estimate, no provisional activity was recorded. Please refer to Note 6 - Income Taxes of the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2018 Form 10-K for additional information.Uncertain Tax PositionsWe reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be applicable and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Refer to Note 3 - Revenue, of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part 1 of this report, for a summary of our revenue recognition policy. Obsolete inventory or inventory in excess of management’s estimated usage requirement is written down to its estimated net realizable value if less than cost. We periodically monitor the performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs incurred are different than our estimates, we may recognize adjustments to provisions in the period in which those differences arise or are identified. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at this time. In the event that we determine that we will not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment will be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance will be reversed.We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. If certain events or indicators of impairment occur between annual impairment tests, we will perform an impairment test at that date. Prior to this allocation of the assets to the reporting units, we assess long-lived assets for impairment. Furthermore, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must estimate the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for an acquired business. Only after this process is completed can the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, be determined. In our goodwill impairment process we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative analysis. We do not calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless we determine, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using an income approach. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units. Further, the value assigned to intangible assets, other than goodwill, is based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations such as the success and lifecycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value.For other long-lived assets, we routinely consider whether indicators of impairment are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value. If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. We recognize an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset’s carrying value. The fair value of the asset then becomes the asset’s new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value. This decrease was primarily due to Common Stock repurchases in connection with our stock repurchase program. Anticipated cash flows from operations based on our current business outlook, combined with our current levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of September 23, 2018, are expected to be sufficient to support our anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, capital expenditures, capital redistributions, and dividends through at least the next 12 months. However, uncertainty in the global economy and the semiconductor industry, as well as disruptions in credit markets, have in the past, and could in the future, impact customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors.Under certain circumstances, our 2041 Notes may be converted and settled in cash and shares of our Common Stock. During the three months ended September 23, 2018, approximately $79.4 million principal value of convertible 2041 Notes were converted and in the subsequent period through October 19, 2018, we received notice of conversion of an additional $6 million principal value of 2041 Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending December 23, 2018. We expect to have sufficient levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments to fund the near-term settlement of these Convertible Notes.During the December 2017 quarter, a one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $991 million, was recognized associated with the December 2017 U.S. tax reform. This value is identified as provisional in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the period ended September 23, 2018, and is subject to future measurement period adjustments under SAB 118. Such an adjustment was made during the June 2018 quarter and the September 2018 quarter, incorporating new information into the estimate; we may make further adjustments as new information is made available. The revised estimate is now $919.5 million. The Company elected to pay the one-time transition tax over a period of eight years with 8% of the transition tax to be paid each September 15 for years 2018 through 2022, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid each September 15 for years 2023 through 2025.In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products and services. While we have substantial cash balances, we may require additional funding and need or choose to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that, if necessary, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no assurance that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us.ITEM 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskFor financial market risks related to changes in interest rates, marketable equity security prices, and foreign currency exchange rates, refer to Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”, in our 2018 Form 10-K. Other than noted below, our exposure related to market risk has not changed materially since June 24, 2018. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analysis performed on our financial position as of September 23, 2018. Actual results may differ materially.Fixed Income SecuritiesOur investments in various interest earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. At any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. Conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. We target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our capital by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and concentration risk. 36Table of ContentsThe following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. The portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification.ITEM 4.Controls and ProceduresDesign of Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial ReportingWe maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over final reporting that are designed to comply with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act. In designing and evaluating the controls and procedures associated with each, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and that the effectiveness of controls cannot be absolute because the cost to design and implement a control to identify errors or mitigate the risk of errors occurring should not outweigh the potential loss caused by the errors that would likely be detected by the control. Moreover, we believe that a control system cannot be guaranteed to be 100% effective all of the time. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer, along with our Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level.We intend to review and evaluate the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures on an ongoing basis and to correct any material deficiencies that we may discover. Our goal is to ensure that our senior management has timely access to material information that could affect our business.Changes in Internal Control over Financial ReportingDuring the fiscal quarter ended September 23, 2018, we implemented certain controls over financial reporting in connection with our adoption of ASC 606, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers.” There were no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting during our most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.37Table of ContentsEffectiveness of ControlsWhile we believe the present design of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting is effective, future events affecting our business may cause us to modify our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting.PART II.OTHER INFORMATION ITEM 1.Legal ProceedingsWhile we are not currently a party to any legal proceedings that we believe are material, we are either a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that have arisen from time to time in the normal course of business, including intellectual property claims. We accrue for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. Based on current information, we do not believe that a material loss from known matters is probable and therefore have not recorded an accrual for litigation or other contingencies related to existing legal proceedings.ITEM 1A.Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information in this Form 10-Q, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. As a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other SEC filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. No priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear.The Semiconductor Capital Equipment Industry Is Subject to Variability and Periods of Rapid Growth or Decline; We Therefore Face Risks Related to Our Strategic Resource Allocation DecisionsThe semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand. The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry. Variability in our customers’ business plans may lead to changes in demand for our equipment and services, which could negatively impact our results. The changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities.During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. If we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of increasing or declining demand, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted.We continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.38Table of ContentsFuture Declines in the Semiconductor Industry, and the Overall World Economic Conditions on Which It Is Significantly Dependent, Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial ConditionOur business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. With the consolidation of customers within the industry, the semiconductor capital equipment market may experience rapid changes in demand driven both by changes in the market generally and the plans and requirements of particular customers. The economic, political, and business conditions occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. Additionally, in times of economic uncertainty, our customers’ budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. This would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. Where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. We manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. Negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our Common Stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. We operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. Additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill in one or more of our business units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations.Our Leverage and Debt Service Obligations and Potential Note Conversion or Related Hedging Activities May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations, and Earnings per ShareWe have $2.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding. Additionally, we have funding available to us under our $1.25 billion commercial paper program and our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which serves as a backstop to our commercial paper program. Our revolving credit facility also includes an option to increase the amount up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion. We may, in the future, decide to enter into additional debt arrangements.In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt. Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness.Conversion of our Convertible Notes and the exercise of warrants may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share. The number of shares of our Common Stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible and for which the warrants are exercisable for may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders. Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation.We Have a Limited Number of Key CustomersSales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments, cash flows, collections, and profitability. As a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that is difficult to predict. Similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results.We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success. Consequently, We Are Subject to Risks Associated with Rapid Technological ChangeRapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. If new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. We may be unable to develop and manufacture products successfully, or products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. For more than 25 years, the primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips. That driver could be approaching its technological limit, leading semiconductor manufacturers to investigate more complex changes in multiple technologies in an effort to continue technology development. In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements. Our failure to develop and offer the correct technology solutions in a timely manner with productive and cost-effective products could adversely affect our business in a material way. Our investments and acquisitions may not be as successful as we may expect, particularly as we seek to invest or acquire product lines and technologies that are new to us. We may find that acquisitions are not available to us, for regulatory or other reasons, and that we must therefore limit ourselves to collaboration and joint venture development activities, which do not have the same benefits as acquisitions. We must manage 41Table of Contentsproduct transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies. Future technologies, processes, or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, obsolete inventory, or both. Moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices. This shift may result in a reduction in the size of our addressable markets or could increase the relative size of markets in which we either do not compete or have relatively low market share.We Are Subject to Risks Relating to Product Concentration and Lack of Product Revenue DiversificationWe derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products. Our products are priced up to approximately $11 million per system. As a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for a given quarter, and, in the longer term, the continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. This may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. Such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. Our business is affected by our customers’ use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes. In certain instances, this could work to our disadvantage if a competitor’s tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such functions or processes. If those institutions utilize a competitor’s equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. Even if they select our equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights, that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk. These actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results.We Depend on a Limited Number of Key Suppliers and Outsource Providers, and We Run the Risk That They Might Not Perform as We ExpectOutsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. These providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us, or be unable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect.42Table of ContentsAlthough we attempt to select reputable providers and suppliers and we attempt to secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers or suppliers could fail to perform as we expect, or fail to secure or protect intellectual property rights, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. In some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances. There is therefore a risk that a prolonged inability to obtain certain components or secure key services could impair our ability to manage operations, ship products, and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships.We Face Risks Related to the Disruption of Our Primary Manufacturing FacilitiesOur manufacturing facilities are concentrated in a limited number of locations. These locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, utility interruptions, or other events beyond our control. Such disruptions may cause delays in shipping our products, which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting our business and operating results.Once a Semiconductor Manufacturer Commits to Purchase a Competitor’s Semiconductor Manufacturing Equipment, the Manufacturer Typically Continues to Purchase That Competitor’s Equipment, Making It More Difficult for Us to Sell Our Equipment to That CustomerSemiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse. Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment for the same product line application.We Face a Challenging and Complex Competitive EnvironmentWe face significant competition from multiple competitors, and with increased consolidation efforts in our industry, we may face increasing competitive pressures. These competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. We also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. In addition, we face competition from companies that exist in a more favorable legal or regulatory environment than we do, allowing the freedom of action in ways that we may be unable to match. In many cases speed to solution is necessary for customer satisfaction and our competitors may be better positioned to achieve these objectives. For these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide.In addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. In particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. A significant trade disruption in any area where we do business could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. Tariffs, additional taxes or trade barriers may increase our manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial conditions. Certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the U.S. government. Our failure or inability to obtain such licenses could potentially limit our markets and impact our revenues. Many of the challenges noted above are applicable in China, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of anticipated growth for our business.We are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and Korean won. Currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and Korean won. In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables. We believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. We expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. However, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over or under hedged on any given transaction. Moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. Certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances. Since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the United States, this may impact certain business decisions and outcomes.44Table of ContentsOur Ability to Attract, Retain, and Motivate Key Employees Is Critical to Our SuccessOur ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies. This is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. Our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. We periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. If we are not able to successfully attract, retain, and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected.Certain Critical Information Systems, That We Rely on for the Operation of Our Business, and Products That We Sell Are Susceptible to Cybersecurity and Other Threats or IncidentsWe maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsourced providers, or third parties such as vendors, contractors, and Cloud providers. All of these information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure from various sources, including those using techniques that change frequently or may be disguised or difficult to detect, or designed to remain dormant until a triggering event, or that may continue undetected for an extended period of time. Those sources may include mistakes or unauthorized actions by our employees or contractors; phishing schemes and other third-party attacks, and degradation or loss of service or access to our data due to viruses, malware, denial of service attacks, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment.We have experienced cyber threats and incidents in the past. Although past threats and incidents have not resulted in a material adverse effect, we may incur material losses related to cyber threats or incidents in the future. If we were subject to a cyber incident, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Financial Results May Be Adversely Impacted by Higher than Expected Tax Rates or Exposure to Additional Tax LiabilitiesAs a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation allowance of deferred tax 45Table of Contentsassets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities. These factors could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability.A Failure to Comply with Environmental Regulations May Adversely Affect Our Operating ResultsWe are subject to a variety of domestic and international governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals. These regulations could require us to alter our current operations, acquire significant additional equipment, incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations, or take other actions. Any failure to comply with regulations governing the use, handling, sale, transport, or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and ability to operate our business.If We Choose to Acquire or Dispose of Businesses, Product Lines, and Technologies, We May Encounter Unforeseen Costs and Difficulties That Could Impair Our Financial PerformanceAn important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. As a result, we may seek to make acquisitions of complementary companies, products, or technologies, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. For regulatory or other reasons, we may not be successful in our attempts to acquire or dispose of businesses, products, or technologies, resulting in significant financial costs, reduced or lost opportunities, and diversion of management’s attention. Managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies, or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management’s attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adverse customer reaction to our decision to cease support for a product, and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. The trading price of our Common Stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. Historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our Common Stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors. These and other factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. If we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management’s attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our Common Stock.Intellectual Property, Indemnity, and Other Claims Against Us Can Be Costly and We Could Lose Significant Rights That Are Necessary to Our Continued Business and ProfitabilityThird parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. From time to time, other persons send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. In addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. We also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. In addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and members of our Board of Directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us. From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third-party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. In such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. However, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. Moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles.We May Fail to Protect Our Critical Proprietary Technology Rights, Which Could Affect Our BusinessOur success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights, and trade secret protection. Protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. As part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques as trade secrets. However, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the U.S. or foreign governments issue to us; these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications; or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to the intentional or unintentional actions or omissions of third parties, of ours, or even of our own employees. Additionally, intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and even when patents are issued or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the United States. The rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents, pending patent applications, or trade secrets may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. Moreover, because we determine the jurisdictions in which to file patents at the time of filing, we may not have adequate protection in the future based on such previous decisions. As a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, anti-corruption, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, conflict minerals or other social responsibility legislation, immigration or travel regulations, and antitrust regulations, among others. Each of these laws, rules, and regulations imposes costs on our business, including financial costs and potential diversion of our management’s attention associated with compliance, and may present risks to our business, including potential fines, restrictions on our actions, and reputational damage if we are unable to fully comply.47Table of ContentsTo maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all evolving standards. Changes in or ambiguous interpretations of laws, regulations, and standards may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. Efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased selling, general, and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends and share repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal, state, and international income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model. Our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments or share repurchases could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock.ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsRepurchases of Company SharesIn March 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of Common Stock. The new authorization increased the share repurchase authorization granted in November 2017 to an aggregate of $4.0 billion of Common Stock, and supplements the remaining balances from any prior authorizations. These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law. Repurchases will be funded using our cash, cash generation, and available credit facilities. This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The shares retained by us through these net share settlements are not a part of the Board-authorized repurchase program but instead are authorized under our equity compensation plan. We took an initial delivery of approximately 5.8 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on August 14, 2018. The total number of shares to be received under the August 2018 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.