EmployerIdentification No. PART I. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. The Company’s reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K are available online at the Securities and Exchange Commission website on the Internet. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. The content on any website referred to in this Form 10-Q is not a part of or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-Q unless expressly noted.The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Lam Research and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company’s current fiscal year will end June 24, 2018 and includes 52 weeks. The Company adopted this standard prospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a $40.1 million cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings for the recognition of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits for all years prior to the adoption. As required by the standard update, the amendment was applied prospectively to recognize excess tax benefits or deficiencies in the income statement in the period of occurrence. Accordingly, the provision for income taxes in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 included excess tax benefits of $11.0 million and $13.0 million, respectively, that decreased the income tax provision. Additionally, the Company has elected to apply the change in cash flow classification on a prospective basis. The Company has elected to continue to estimate the number of forfeitures 7Table of Contentsexpected to occur to determine the amount of compensation cost to be recognized each period. The Company has elected to adopt the effects of the standard update with regard to the income tax withholdings obligations on a prospective basis. The FASB issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance in August 2015, March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016 within ASU 2015-14, ASU 2016-08, ASU 2016-10, ASU 2016-12 and ASU 2016-20, respectively. The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. The new standard defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than required under existing GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. The Company has not yet selected a transition method. The Company is continuing its evaluation of the impact that the new standard will have on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures, business processes, systems, and controls. While the Company’s evaluation of the impact of the standard on its financial statements with respect to its spare parts and service revenue has not been completed, the Company believes that the timing of revenue recognition for certain of its systems will generally be earlier than under existing revenue recognition guidance. The Company continues to evaluate the impact to its revenues related to its pending adoption of these standards and its preliminary assessments are subject to change.In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-1, “Financial Instruments – Overall – Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” The amendment changes the accounting for and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee. The amendment provides clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes. The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and does not anticipate that implementation will have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-2, “Leases.” The amendment requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. The amendment offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions. Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified-retrospective approach on the earliest period presented. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable. The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 using a modified-retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.In August 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” The amendment provides and clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows to eliminate diversity in practice. The Company is required to adopt the standard update in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with a retrospective transition method required. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.8Table of ContentsIn October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is required to adopt the standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a modified-retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.In November 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows – Restricted Cash.” This standard update requires that restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included in cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown in the statement of cash flows. The Company is required to adopt this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with a retrospective transition method required. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is required to adopt the standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, using a modified-retrospective approach for any cash flow or net investment hedges that exist on the date of adoption. The presentation and disclosure requirements as defined per the standard are to be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price. An RSU award is an agreement to issue a set number of shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting. The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition. The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years. Interest expense decreased in the six months ended December 24, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016 due to the termination of the Term Loan Agreement and mandatory redemption of the Senior Notes due 2023 and 2026 during the December 2016 quarter. U.S. tax reform reduces the U.S. federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%, mandates payment of a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. As such, there is significant activity within the quarter which reflects the change in legislation. Most of that activity has provisionally been recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the period ended December 24, 2017, as the Company has not yet completed the accounting for the tax effects of enactment. The Company has recorded what it believes to be a reasonable estimate and the provisional activity is subject to further adjustments under SAB 118. In addition, for significant items for which the Company could not make a reasonable estimate, no provisional activity was recorded. The activity will be recorded during the measurement period allowed under SAB 118 when a reasonable estimate can be made, or when the effect of the activity is known. As the Company has a fiscal year ending the last Sunday in June, it is subject to transitional tax rate rules. Therefore, a blended rate of 28.27% was computed as effective for the current fiscal year. The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 28.27% and the Company’s effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, is primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform, outlined below, and income in lower tax jurisdictions.Revaluation of the Company’s deferred tax balances to reflect the new U.S. federal statutory tax rate and computation of the one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, were recorded on a provisional basis in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 and are therefore subject to potential measurement period adjustments under SAB 118. The Company revalued the deferred tax balances based on the tax rates at which the balance, or a portion of the balance, is expected 10Table of Contentsto reverse at in the future. Generally, this is 21%, but for certain activity which is expected to reverse at the Company’s current fiscal year blended rate. The Company has not yet completed the revaluation of the deferred tax balances due to estimates which are being used during interim periods until finalization of the balances can occur at the Company’s fiscal year end. The provisional amount recorded related to the revaluation of the Company’s deferred tax balance was $42.7 million, and an associated tax liability was remeasured at $54.0 million, which is the tax effect of when the balance is expected to reverse. The Company recorded a provisional amount for the one-time transition tax of $991.3 million, which was offset by the release of the associated previously accrued deferred taxes of $287.8 million. The net increase to tax expense was $703.5 million. The one-time transition tax may be elected to be paid over a period of eight years. The GILTI provision imposes taxes on foreign earnings in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets. This tax is effective for the Company after the end of the current fiscal year. However, the Company is evaluating whether deferred taxes should be recorded in relation to the GILTI provisions or if the tax should be recorded in the period in which it occurs. Based on current interpretation, the Company may choose either method as an accounting policy election. The Company has not yet decided on the accounting policy related to GILTI and will only do so after completion of the GILTI analysis. The provisions related to GILTI are subject to adjustment during the measurement period under SAB 118.The Company is in various stages of examination in connection with all of its tax audits worldwide, and it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be settled. It is reasonably possible that over the next 12-month period the Company may experience an increase or decrease in its unrecognized tax benefits as a result of tax examinations or lapses of statute of limitations. Dilutive shares outstanding include the effect of the convertible notes. Refer to Note 11 for additional information regarding the Company’s convertible notes. The Company’s mutual funds, which are related to the Company’s obligations under the deferred compensation plan, are classified as trading securities. Investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.A fair value hierarchy has been established that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The level of an asset or liability in the hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The estimated fair value of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their carrying value due to the short period of time to their maturities. The estimated fair values of capital lease obligations approximate their carrying value as the substantial majority of these obligations have interest rates that adjust to market rates on a periodic basis. Management assesses the fair value of investments in debt securities that are not actively traded through consideration of interest rates and their impact on the present value of the cash flows to be received from the investments. The Company also considers whether changes in the credit ratings of the issuer could impact the assessment of fair value. The Company did not recognize any losses on investments due to other-than-temporary impairments during the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 or December 25, 2016. The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swap arrangements to manage interest rate risk. The counterparties to these derivatives are large global financial institutions that the Company believes are creditworthy, and therefore, it does not consider the risk of counterparty nonperformance to be material.Cash Flow HedgesThe Company’s financial position is routinely subjected to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar transactions or cash flows, primarily from Japanese yen-denominated revenues and euro- denominated and Korean won-denominated expenses. The Company’s policy is to mitigate the foreign exchange risk arising from the fluctuations in the value of these non-U.S. dollar denominated transactions or cash flows through a foreign currency cash flow hedging program, using forward contracts and foreign currency options that generally expire within 12 months and no later than 24 months. These instruments are designated as cash flow hedges at inception and are settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt. At inception and at each quarter-end, hedges are tested prospectively and retrospectively for effectiveness using regression analysis. Changes in the fair value of the forward contracts due to changes in time value are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness and are recognized in revenue or expense in the current period. The change in time value related to these contracts was not material for all reported periods. Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange options due to changes in time value are included in the assessment of effectiveness. To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship must meet criteria relating to both the derivative instrument and the hedged item. These criteria include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows will be measured. There were no material gains or losses during the three or six months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016 associated with ineffectiveness or forecasted transactions that failed to occur.To receive hedge accounting treatment, all hedging relationships are formally documented at the inception of the hedge, and the hedges must be tested to demonstrate an expectation of providing highly effective offsetting changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions. Consequently, with the exception of excluded time value associated with the forward contracts and hedge ineffectiveness recognized, the Company’s results of operations are not subject to fluctuation as a result of changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments. If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges. If this were to occur, future changes in the fair values of the Company’s derivative 14Table of Contentsinstruments would be recognized in earnings. Additionally, related amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income would be reclassified to income immediately. As of December 24, 2017, the Company had gains of $7.8 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months. Additionally, as of December 24, 2017, the Company had a net loss of $1.9 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to interest rate contracts which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 7.2 years. Fair Value HedgesThe Company has interest rate contracts whereby the Company receives fixed rates and pays variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates, resulting in a net increase or decrease to interest expense, a component of other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. These interest rate contracts are designated as fair value hedges and hedge against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio. The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap. Therefore, the derivative is considered to be effective at achieving offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged liability, and no ineffectiveness is recognized. Balance Sheet HedgesThe Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables. These forward contracts are not designated for hedge accounting treatment. However, the Company has elected to present the derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis on its balance sheet. As of December 24, 2017, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange and interest rate contracts would be an offset to assets and liabilities by $4.1 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $5.6 million and net derivative liability of $15.5 million. As of June 25, 2017, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange contracts would be an offset to both assets and liabilities by $5.9 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $2.3 million and a net derivative liability of $7.4 million. Cash is placed on deposit at large global financial institutions. Such deposits may be in excess of insured limits. Management believes that the financial institutions that hold the Company’s cash are creditworthy and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to these balances.The Company’s overall portfolio of available-for-sale securities must maintain an average minimum rating of “AA-” or “Aa3” as rated by Standard and Poor’s, Fitch Ratings, or Moody’s Investor Services. To ensure diversification and minimize concentration, the Company’s policy limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution or commercial issuer.The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on foreign currency and interest rate hedge contracts that are used to mitigate the effect of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and on contracts related to structured share repurchase arrangements. System shipments to Japanese customers, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance, are classified as finished goods inventory and carried at cost until title transfers. During the six months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, the company recognized $80.1 million and $77.3 million, respectively, in intangible asset amortization expense. Upon closure of the conversion period, the 2041 Notes not converted will be reclassified back into noncurrent liabilities and the temporary equity will be reclassified into permanent equity. As a result, the 2041 Notes were classified in current liabilities and a portion of the equity component, associated with the convertible notes representing the unamortized discount, was classified in temporary equity on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company pays cash interest at an annual rate of 1.25%, on a semi-annual basis on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The Company pays cash interest at an annual rate of 2.625%, on a semi-annual basis on May 15 and November 15 of each year on the 2041 Notes. The 2041 Notes also have a contingent interest payment provision that may require the Company to pay additional interest, up to 0.60% per year, based on certain thresholds, beginning with the semi-annual interest payment on May 15, 2021, and upon the occurrence of certain events, as outlined in the indenture governing the 2041 Notes.The Company separately accounts for the liability and equity components of the Convertible Notes. The initial debt components of the Convertible Notes were valued based on the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature, which equals the effective interest rate on the liability component disclosed in the table below, respectively. The equity component was initially valued equal to the principle value of the notes, less the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without a conversion feature, which equated to the initial debt discount.Under certain circumstances, the Convertible Notes may be converted into shares of the Company’s Common Stock. The number of shares each debenture is convertible into is based on conversion rates, disclosed in the table below. The principal value of Convertible Note conversions in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, was approximately $44.6 million and $346.3 million, respectively. The warrants settlement is contractually defined as net share settlement. The exercise price is adjusted for certain corporate events, including dividends on the Company’s Common Stock. As of December 24, 2017, the warrants associated with the 2018 Notes had not been exercised and remained outstanding.In conjunction with the convertible note hedge, counterparties agreed to sell to the Company shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the 2018 Notes in full. The convertible note hedge transactions will be settled in net shares and will terminate upon the earlier of the maturity date or the first day none of the respective notes remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise. Settlement of the convertible note hedge in net shares, based on the number of shares issued upon conversion of the 2018 Notes, on the expiration date would result in the Company receiving net shares equivalent to the number of shares issuable by the Company upon conversion of the 2018 Notes. The exercise price is adjusted for certain corporate events, including dividends on the Company’s Common Stock. The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.75% and 3.80%, on the 2020 Notes and 2025 Notes, respectively, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year. During the year ended June 26, 2016, the Company entered into a series of interest rate contracts hedging the fair value of a portion of the 2025 Notes par value, whereby the Company receives a fixed rate and pays a variable rate based on a certain benchmark interest rate. Refer to Note 7 for additional information regarding these interest rate contracts. The Company may redeem the Senior Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after February 15, 2020, for the 2020 Notes and on or after December 24, 2024, for the 2025 Notes. The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.80% on the 2021 Notes on a semi-annual basis on June 15 and December 15 of each year. The Company may redeem the 2021 Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after May 15, 2021. The net proceeds from the commercial paper program will be used for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of the Company’s Common Stock from time to time and under the Company’s stock repurchase 19Table of Contentsprogram. As of December 24, 2017, borrowings under the CP Program had a weighted-average interest rate of 1.64% with maturities of 30 days or less. Amounts available under the CP Program may be re-borrowed.Revolving Credit FacilityOn October 13, 2017, the Company entered into Amendment No. Among other things, the Amended Credit Agreement provides for a $500 million increase to the Company’s revolving credit facility, from $750 million to $1.25 billion with a syndicate of lenders. The Amended Credit Agreement provides for an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion. Principal and any accrued and unpaid interest is due and payable upon maturity. Additionally, the Company will pay the lenders a quarterly commitment fee that varies based on the Company’s credit rating. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains affirmative covenants, negative covenants, financial covenants and events of default. As of December 24, 2017, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and was in compliance with all financial covenants.Interest CostThe following table presents the amount of interest cost recognized relating to both the contractual interest coupon and amortization of the debt discount, issuance costs, and effective portion of interest rate contracts with respect to the Convertible Notes, the Senior Notes, the term loan agreement, commercial paper, and the revolving credit facility during the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, and December 25, 2016. Certain of the Company’s facility leases for buildings located at its Fremont, California headquarters and certain other facility leases provide the Company with options to extend the leases for additional periods or to purchase the facilities. The Company was required to maintain cash collateral in an aggregate of approximately $250.0 million in separate interest-bearing accounts as security for the Company’s obligations. These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 24, 2017.During the term of the Operating Leases and when the terms of the Operating Leases expire, the property subject to those Operating Leases may be remarketed. The Company has guaranteed to the lessor that each property will have a certain minimum residual value. The aggregate guarantee made by the Company under the Operating Leases is generally no more than approximately $220.4 million; however, under certain default circumstances, the guarantee with regard to an Operating Lease may be 100% of the lessor’s aggregate investment in the applicable property, which in no case will exceed $250.0 million, in the aggregate.20Table of ContentsOther GuaranteesThe Company has issued certain indemnifications to its lessors for taxes and general liability under some of its agreements. The Company has entered into certain insurance contracts that are intended to limit its exposure to such indemnifications. As of December 24, 2017, the Company had not recorded any liability in connection with these indemnifications, as it does not believe that it is probable that any amounts will be paid under these guarantees.Generally, the Company indemnifies, under pre-determined conditions and limitations, its customers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights by the Company’s products or services. The Company seeks to limit its liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations. The Company does not believe that it is probable that any material amounts will be paid under these guarantees.The Company provides guarantees and standby letters of credit to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated during the ordinary course of business. As of December 24, 2017, the maximum potential amount of future payments that it could be required to make under these arrangements and letters of credit was $20.6 million. The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid.WarrantiesThe Company provides standard warranties on its systems. The Company accrues for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. Based on current information, the Company does not believe that a material loss from known matters is probable and therefore has not recorded an accrual for litigation or other contingencies related to existing legal proceedings.NOTE 13 — STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAMIn November 2017, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of Common Stock; this authorization supplements the remaining balances from any prior authorizations. These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law. Repurchases are funded using the Company’s on-shore cash, on-shore cash generation, and available credit facilities. This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The Company took an initial delivery of 3,254,300 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on November 20, 2017. The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement of two of the transactions is expected to be completed no later than February 22, 2018, and final settlement for the remaining transactions is expected to be completed no sooner than March 26, 2018 or no later than May 24, 2018. The Company took an initial delivery of approximately 2,570,000 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on April 19, 2017. The total number of shares received under the April 2017 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. The April 2017 ASR settled on June 30, 2017. The primary area that remains open relates to the fair value of intangible assets, certain tangible assets and liabilities assumed and income taxes. The Company expects to continue to obtain information to assist us in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired during the measurement period.The operating results of the acquired entity, from the date of acquisition, have been included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended December 24, 2017. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. 22Table of ContentsITEM 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTSWith the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this discussion are forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this report are specifically identified as forward-looking, by use of phrases and words such as “believe,” “estimated,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “plan,” “aim,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “continue,” and other future-oriented terms. The identification of certain statements as “forward-looking” does not mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. Such risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this report and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events.Documents To Review In Connection With Management’s Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of OperationsFor a full understanding of our financial position and results of operations for the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, and the related Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, you should also read the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes presented in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes in our 2017 Form 10-K.EXECUTIVE SUMMARYLam Research is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines. Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive devices, storage devices, and networking equipment. Our vision is to realize full value from natural technology extensions of our company. We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success. Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers’ business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits on a wafer. This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps. Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale. Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.Demand from cloud computing, Internet of Things, and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost-efficient semiconductors. At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional two-dimensional scaling. These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical scaling strategies like 3D architectures as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks. We believe we are in a strong position with our leadership and competency in deposition, etch, and single-wafer clean to facilitate some of the most significant innovations in semiconductor device manufacturing. Technology inflections in our industry, including NVM, multiple patterning, FinFET and advanced packaging have led to an increase in the served addressable market for our products in deposition, etch, single-wafer clean, and customer service business. We believe that demand for our products and services should increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers’ capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas and we continue to gain market share.We acquired the outstanding shares of Coventor, Inc., a privately-held company, on August 28, 2017, as further discussed in Note 15 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the December 2017 quarter increased as compared to the September 2017 quarter primarily due to favorable customer and product mix. Operating expenses in the December 2017 quarter increased compared to the September 2017 quarter mainly due to an increase in employee headcount and outside services. The December 2017 quarter results were negatively impacted by a one-time provisional charge associated with the recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation.Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances decreased to $6.0 billion as of December 24, 2017, compared to $6.4 billion as of September 24, 2017. Cash generated by operations was approximately $29 million during the December 2017 quarter. We used cash during the December 2017 quarter for approximately $1.1 billion of share repurchases, including net share settlement on employee stock-based compensation, $206 million of purchases of available-for-sale securities, $85 million of capital expenditures, and $73 million of dividends paid to our stockholders; offset 24Table of Contentsby approximately $799 million of net proceeds on short-term borrowings. Employee headcount as of December 24, 2017, was approximately 10,200. Our deferred revenue balance increased to $1.1 billion as of December 24, 2017, compared to $938 million as of September 24, 2017, as a result of timing of shipments and revenue recognition. Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to Japanese customers, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to Japanese customers are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The spending in the December 2017 quarter is relatively flat in comparison to the September 2017 quarter. Foreign exchange was a net gain in the December 2017 quarter as compared to a net loss in the September 2017 quarter and a net loss in the six months ended December 2017 compared to a net gain in the six months ended December 2016 due to currency movements against portions of our unhedged balance sheet exposures. Loss on extinguishment of debt in the three and six months ended December 25, 2016 related to the special mandatory redemption of our 2023 and 2026 Notes, as well as, the termination of the Amended and Restated Term Loan Agreement following the Termination of the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization with KLA-Tencor. U.S. tax reform reduces the U.S. federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%, mandates payment of a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. The impact on income taxes due to change in legislation is required under the authoritative guidance of Accounting Standards Codification 740, Income Taxes, to be recognized in the period in which the law is enacted. In conjunction, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, which allows for the recording of provisional amounts related to U.S. tax reform and subsequent adjustments related to U.S. tax reform during a measurement period that is similar to the measurement period used when accounting for business combinations. As such, there is significant activity within the quarter which reflects the change in legislation. Most of that activity has provisionally been recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the period ended December 24, 2017, as we have not yet completed the accounting for the tax effects of enactment. We recorded what we believe to be a reasonable estimate and the provisional activity is subject to further adjustments under SAB 118. In addition, for significant items for which we could not make a reasonable estimate, no provisional activity was recorded. The activity will be recorded during the measurement period allowed under SAB 118 when a reasonable estimate can be made, or when the effect of the activity is known. Additionally, the impact of U.S. tax reform is being evaluated for how it will affect future years’ tax expense due to tax reform provisions that we will potentially be subject to beginning in fiscal year 2019. Tax reform provisions being evaluated impacting future years include GILTI and other provisions. Please refer to Note 6 of the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2017 Form 10-K for additional information.Uncertain Tax PositionsWe reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be applicable and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue upon the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first. If the practices of a customer do not provide for a written acceptance or the terms of sale do not include a lapsing acceptance provision, we recognize revenue when it can be reliably demonstrated that the delivered system meets all of the agreed-to customer specifications. In situations with multiple deliverables, we recognize revenue upon the delivery of the separate elements to the customer and when we receive customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance obligations. We allocate revenue from multiple-element arrangements among the separate elements using their relative selling prices, based on our best estimate of selling price. Our sales arrangements do not include a general right of return. The maximum revenue recognized on a delivered element is limited to the amount that is not contingent upon the delivery of additional items. We generally recognize revenue related to sales of spare parts and system upgrade kits upon shipment. We generally recognize revenue related to services upon completion of the services requested by a customer order. We recognize revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a fixed payment amount on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Obsolete inventory or inventory in excess of management’s estimated usage requirement is written down to its estimated net realizable value if less than cost. We periodically monitor the performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs incurred are different than our estimates, we may recognize adjustments to provisions in the period in which those differences arise or are identified. We estimate the fair value of our market-based performance RSUs using a Monte Carlo simulation model at the date of the grant. We estimate the fair value of our stock options and ESPP awards using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. This model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award. We amortize the fair value of equity-based awards over the vesting periods of the award and we have elected to use the straight-line method of amortization. We estimate expected equity award forfeitures based on historical forfeiture rate activity and expected future employee turnover. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at this time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed.We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. If certain events or indicators of impairment occur between annual impairment tests, we will perform an impairment test at that date. Prior to this allocation of the assets to the reporting units, we assess long-lived assets for impairment. Furthermore, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must estimate the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for an acquired business. Only after this process is completed can the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, be determined. In our goodwill impairment process we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative analysis. We do not calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless we determine, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using an income approach. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units. Further, the value assigned to intangible assets, other than goodwill, is based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations such as the success and lifecycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value.For other long-lived assets, we routinely consider whether indicators of impairment are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value. If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. We recognize an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset’s carrying value. The fair value of the asset then becomes the asset’s new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value. Approximately $5.0 billion and $4.8 billion of our total cash and investments as of December 24, 2017, and June 25, 2017, respectively, was held outside the United States in our foreign subsidiaries, the majority of which is held in U.S. dollars. Anticipated cash flows from operations based on our current business outlook, combined with our current levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of December 24, 2017, are expected to be sufficient to support our anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, capital expenditures, capital redistributions, and dividends through at least the next 12 months. However, uncertainty in the global economy and the semiconductor industry, as well as disruptions in credit markets, have in the past, and could in the future, impact customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors.Under certain circumstances, our Convertible Notes may be converted into shares of our Common Stock. During the six months ended December 24, 2017, approximately $346.3 million principle value of Convertible Notes were converted and in the subsequent period through January 26, 2018, we received notice of conversion of an additional $228 million principal value of Convertible Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending March 25, 2018. We anticipate that conversions may continue in the coming quarter as the 2018 Notes approach maturity. We expect to have sufficient levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments to fund the near-term settlement of these Convertible Notes.On October 13, 2017, we entered into Amendment No. Among other things, the Amended Credit Agreement provides for a $500 million increase to the Company’s revolving credit facility, from $750 million under the Credit Agreement to $1.25 billion under the Amended Credit Agreement. The Amended Credit Agreement also modifies the date of maturity of the revolving credit facility from November 10, 2020 to October 13, 2022. The Amended Credit Agreement provides for an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 31Table of Contentsbillion. Other than as disclosed in this paragraph, the material terms of the Amended Credit Agreement are substantially the same as the Credit Agreement.On November 13, 2017, we established a commercial paper program under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $1.25 billion. Individual maturities may vary, but cannot not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The net proceeds from the CP Program will be used for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of our Common Stock from time to time and under our stock repurchase program. If at any time, funds are not available under favorable terms under CP Program, we may utilize the Amended Credit Agreement for funding. Amounts available under the CP Program may be re-borrowed.During the December 2017 quarter, a one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $991.3 million has been recognized associated with the recent U.S. tax reform. This value is identified as provisional in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the period ended December 24, 2017, and is subject to future measurement period adjustments under SAB 118. We have elected to pay this tax over a period of eight years, with 8% of the transition tax paid to be paid each September 15, for years 2018 through 2022, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid in on September 15, 2023, 2024, and 2025.In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products and services. While we have substantial cash balances in the United States and offshore, we may require additional funding and need or choose to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that, if necessary, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us.ITEM 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskFor financial market risks related to changes in interest rates, marketable equity security prices, and foreign currency exchange rates, refer to Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”, in our 2017 Form 10-K. Other than noted below, our exposure related to market risk has not changed materially since June 25, 2017. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analysis performed on our financial position as of December 24, 2017. Actual results may differ materially.Fixed Income SecuritiesOur investments in various interest earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. At any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. Conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. We target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our capital by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and concentration risk. 32Table of ContentsThe following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. Treasury and agencies855,503 845,703 835,893 826,084 816,277 806,471 796,668Municipal notes and bonds181,905 180,891 179,863 178,836 177,808 176,781 175,754Government-sponsored enterprises48,840 48,334 47,828 47,323 46,817 46,312 45,807Foreign government bonds62,333 61,727 61,122 60,516 59,910 59,305 58,699Bank and corporate notes2,743,690 2,720,516 2,697,341 2,674,148 2,650,943 2,627,741 2,604,542Mortgage backed securities - residential55,161 54,511 53,858 53,205 52,551 51,898 51,244Mortgage backed securities - commercial123,691 122,868 122,045 121,221 120,399 119,576 118,753Total$4,592,388 $4,555,815 $4,519,215 $4,482,598 $4,445,970 $4,409,349 $4,372,732We mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. The portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification.ITEM 4.Controls and ProceduresDesign of Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial ReportingWe maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over final reporting that are designed to comply with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act. In designing and evaluating the controls and procedures associated with each, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and that the effectiveness of controls cannot be absolute because the cost to design and implement a control to identify errors or mitigate the risk of errors occurring should not outweigh the potential loss caused by the errors that would likely be detected by the control. Moreover, we believe that a control system cannot be guaranteed to be 100% effective all of the time. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer, along with our Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level.We intend to review and evaluate the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures on an ongoing basis and to correct any material deficiencies that we may discover. Our goal is to ensure that our senior management has timely access to material information that could affect our business.Changes in Internal Control over Financial ReportingThere has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during our most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.33Table of ContentsEffectiveness of ControlsWhile we believe the present design of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting is effective, future events affecting our business may cause us to modify our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting.PART II.OTHER INFORMATION ITEM 1.Legal ProceedingsWhile we are not currently a party to any legal proceedings that we believe are material, we are either a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that have arisen from time to time in the normal course of business, including intellectual property claims. We accrue for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. Based on current information, we do not believe that a material loss from known matters is probable and therefore have not recorded an accrual for litigation or other contingencies related to existing legal proceedings.ITEM 1A.Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information in this Form 10-Q, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. As a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other SEC filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. No priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear.The Semiconductor Capital Equipment Industry Is Subject to Variability and Periods of Rapid Growth or Decline; We Therefore Face Risks Related to Our Strategic Resource Allocation DecisionsThe semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand. The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry. Variability in our customers’ business plans may lead to changes in demand for our equipment and services, which could negatively impact our results. The changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities.During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. If we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of increasing or declining demand, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted.We continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.34Table of ContentsFuture Declines in the Semiconductor Industry, and the Overall World Economic Conditions on Which It Is Significantly Dependent, Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial ConditionOur business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. With the consolidation of customers within the industry, the semiconductor capital equipment market may experience rapid changes in demand driven both by changes in the market generally and the plans and requirements of particular customers. The economic, political, and business conditions occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. Additionally, in times of economic uncertainty, our customers’ budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. This would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. Where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. We manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. Negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our Common Stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. We operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. Additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill in one or more of our business units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations.Our Leverage and Debt Service Obligations and Potential Note Conversion or Related Hedging Activities May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations, and Earnings per ShareWe have $3.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding. Additionally, we have $1.25 billion available to us in revolving credit arrangements, with an option for us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion. We may, in the future, decide to borrow amounts under the revolving credit agreement, or to enter into additional debt arrangements.In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt. Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, particularly in the United States, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness.Conversion of our Convertible Notes and the exercise of the related warrants may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share. The number of shares of our Common Stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible and for which related warrants are exercisable for may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders. Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. This dilution may not be completely mitigated by the hedging transactions we entered into in connection with the sale of certain Convertible Notes or 36Table of Contentsthrough share repurchases. Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation.We Have a Limited Number of Key CustomersSales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments, cash flows, collections, and profitability. As a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that is difficult to predict. Similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results.We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success. Consequently, We Are Subject to Risks Associated with Rapid Technological ChangeRapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. If new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. We may be unable to develop and manufacture products successfully, or products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. For more than 25 years, the primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips. That driver could be approaching its technological limit, leading semiconductor manufacturers to investigate more complex changes in multiple technologies in an effort to continue technology development. In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements. Our failure to develop and offer the correct technology solutions in a timely manner with productive and cost-effective products could adversely affect our business in a material way. Our investments and acquisitions may not be as successful as we may expect, particularly as we seek to invest or acquire product lines and technologies that are new to us. We may find that acquisitions are not available to us, for regulatory or other reasons, and that we must therefore limit ourselves to collaboration and joint venture development activities, which do not have the same benefits as acquisitions. We must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies. Future technologies, processes, or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, obsolete inventory, or both. Moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices. This shift may result in a reduction in the size of our addressable markets or could increase the relative size of markets in which we either do not compete or have relatively low market share.We Are Subject to Risks Relating to Product Concentration and Lack of Product Revenue DiversificationWe derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products. Our products are priced up to approximately $10 million per system. As a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for a given quarter, and, in the longer term, the continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. This may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. Such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. Our business is affected by our customers’ use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes. In certain instances, this could work to our disadvantage if a competitor’s tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such functions or processes. If those institutions utilize a competitor’s equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. Even if they select our equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights, that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk. These actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results.We Depend on a Limited Number of Key Suppliers and Outsource Providers, and We Run the Risk That They Might Not Perform as We ExpectOutsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. These providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us, or be 38Table of Contentsunable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect.Although we attempt to select reputable providers and suppliers and we attempt to secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers or suppliers could fail to perform as we expect, or fail to secure or protect intellectual property rights, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. In some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances. There is therefore a risk that a prolonged inability to obtain certain components or secure key services could impair our ability to manage operations, ship products, and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships.We Face Risks Related to the Disruption of Our Primary Manufacturing FacilitiesOur manufacturing facilities are concentrated in just a few locations. These locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, and utility interruptions. Such disruptions may cause delays in shipping our products, which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting our business and operating results.Once a Semiconductor Manufacturer Commits to Purchase a Competitor’s Semiconductor Manufacturing Equipment, the Manufacturer Typically Continues to Purchase That Competitor’s Equipment, Making It More Difficult for Us to Sell Our Equipment to That CustomerSemiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse. Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment for the same product line application.We Face a Challenging and Complex Competitive EnvironmentWe face significant competition from multiple competitors, and with increased consolidation efforts in our industry, we may face increasing competitive pressures. These competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. We also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. In addition, we face competition from companies that exist in a more favorable legal or regulatory environment than we do, allowing the freedom of action in ways that we may be unable to match. In many cases speed to solution is necessary for customer satisfaction and our competitors may be better positioned to achieve these objectives. For these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide.In addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. In particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. Our failure or inability to obtain such licenses would substantially limit our markets and severely restrict our revenues. Many of the challenges noted above are applicable in China, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. As the business volume between China and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and the United States, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions. A significant trade disruption in these areas could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. The majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and Korean won. Currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and Korean won. In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables. We believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. We expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. However, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over or under hedged on any given transaction. Moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. Certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances. Since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the United States, this may impact certain business decisions and adversely affect business outcomes.40Table of ContentsOur Ability to Attract, Retain, and Motivate Key Employees Is Critical to Our SuccessOur ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies. This is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. Our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. We periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. If we are not able to successfully attract, retain, and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected.Certain Critical Information Systems, That We Rely on for the Operation of Our Business, and Products That We Sell Are Susceptible to Cybersecurity and Other Threats or IncidentsWe maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsourced providers, or third parties such as vendors, contractors, and Cloud providers. All of these information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure from various sources, including those using techniques that change frequently or may be disguised or difficult to detect, or designed to remain dormant until a triggering event, or that may continue undetected for an extended period of time. Those sources may include mistakes or unauthorized actions by our employees or contractors; phishing schemes and other third-party attacks, and degradation or loss of service or access to our data due to viruses, malware, denial of service attacks, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment.We have experienced cyber threats and incidents in the past. Although past threats and incidents have not resulted in a material adverse effect, we may incur material losses related to cyber threats or incidents in the future. If we were subject to a cyber incident, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Financial Results May Be Adversely Impacted by Higher than Expected Tax Rates or Exposure to Additional Tax LiabilitiesAs a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation allowance of deferred tax 41Table of Contentsassets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities. These factors could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability.A Failure to Comply with Environmental Regulations May Adversely Affect Our Operating ResultsWe are subject to a variety of domestic and international governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals. These regulations could require us to alter our current operations, acquire significant additional equipment, incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations, or take other actions. Any failure to comply with regulations governing the use, handling, sale, transport, or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and ability to operate our business.If We Choose to Acquire or Dispose of Businesses, Product Lines, and Technologies, We May Encounter Unforeseen Costs and Difficulties That Could Impair Our Financial PerformanceAn important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. As a result, we may seek to make acquisitions of complementary companies, products, or technologies, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. For regulatory or other reasons, we may not be successful in our attempts to acquire or dispose of businesses, products, or technologies, resulting in significant financial costs, reduced or lost opportunities, and diversion of management’s attention. Managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies, or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management’s attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adverse customer reaction to our decision to cease support for a product, and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. The trading price of our Common Stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. Historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our Common Stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors. These and other factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. If we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management’s attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our Common Stock.Intellectual Property, Indemnity, and Other Claims Against Us Can Be Costly and We Could Lose Significant Rights That Are Necessary to Our Continued Business and ProfitabilityThird parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. From time to time, other persons send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. In addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. We also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. In addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and members of our Board of Directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us. From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third-party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. In such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. However, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. Moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles.We May Fail to Protect Our Critical Proprietary Technology Rights, Which Could Affect Our BusinessOur success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights, and trade secret protection. Protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. As part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques as trade secrets. However, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the U.S. or foreign governments issue to us; these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications; or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to the intentional or unintentional actions or omissions of third parties, of ours, or even of our own employees. Additionally, intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and even when patents are issued or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the United States. The rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents, pending patent applications, or trade secrets may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. Moreover, because we determine the jurisdictions in which to file patents at the time of filing, we may not have adequate protection in the future based on such previous decisions. As a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, anti-corruption, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, conflict minerals or other social responsibility legislation, immigration or travel regulations, and antitrust regulations, among others. Each of these laws, rules, and regulations imposes costs on our business, including financial costs and potential diversion of our management’s attention associated with compliance, and may present risks to our business, including potential fines, restrictions on our actions, and reputational damage if we are unable to fully comply.43Table of ContentsTo maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all evolving standards. Changes in or ambiguous interpretations of laws, regulations, and standards may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. Efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased selling, general, and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model. Our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock.ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsRepurchases of Company SharesIn November 2017, the Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of Common Stock; this authorization supplements the remaining balances from any prior authorizations. These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law. Repurchases will be funded using our on-shore cash, on-shore cash generation, and available credit facilities. This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The shares retained by us through these net share settlements are not a part of the Board-authorized repurchase program but instead are authorized under our equity compensation plan. We took an initial delivery of 3,254,300 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on November 20, 2017. The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement of two of the transactions is expected to be completed no later than February 22, 2018, and final settlement for the remaining transactions is expected to be completed no sooner than March 26, 2018 or no later than May 24, 2018. We took an initial delivery of approximately 2,570,000 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by our closing stock price on April 19, 2017. The total number of shares received under the April 2017 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. The April 2017 ASR settled on June 30, 2017. Approximately 780,000 shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $149.16 for the transaction period.ITEM 3.Defaults Upon Senior SecuritiesNone.ITEM 4.Mine Safety DisclosuresNot applicable.ITEM 5.Other InformationNone.ITEM 6.ExhibitsSee the Exhibit Index following the signature page to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a list of exhibits filed or furnished with this report, which Exhibit Index is incorporated herein by reference.45Table of ContentsLAM RESEARCH CORPORATIONSIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.