FINANCIAL INFORMATIONItem 1. The Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes thereto are unaudited. In the opinion of the Company’s management, the Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all adjustments, which are of a normal recurring nature, that are necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s interim financial results.The Company has a grantor trust, which holds the majority of the funds provided by its clients pending remittance to employees of those clients, tax authorities, and other payees. The Company is the sole beneficial owner of the trust. Refer to Note 2 and Note 16 for additional information. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and accumulated other comprehensive income that are reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes thereto. Actual results may differ from those estimates. Interim financial results are not necessarily indicative of financial results for a full year. Note 2. ASU 2014-09 requires an entity to recognize revenue depicting the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 resulted in enhanced revenue related disclosures. The provisions of the new standard require the Company to capitalize and amortize additional implementation costs than those capitalized and amortized under previous U.S. GAAP. Under previous U.S. GAAP, the Company immediately expensed all selling expenses. The adoption of provisions of the new standard did not materially impact the timing or amount of revenue the Company recognized and did not result in significant changes in its business processes or systems. Refer to Note 3 for further details. Refer to the table below for a summary of the restatements required, as a result of this change, on the Company's consolidated results of operations, statements of financial condition, and cash flows for the three months ended September 30, 2017. ASU 2017-07 requires reporting the service cost component in the same line item or items as other compensation costs arising during the period in the Statements of 7Consolidated Earnings. The other components of net periodic pension cost are required to be presented in the Statements of Consolidated Earnings separately from the service cost component. The Company retrospectively adopted the new standard, and as a result reclassified the non-service cost components of the net periodic benefit cost from within the respective line items of our Statements of Consolidated Earnings to Other income, net. Refer to the table below for a summary of the reclassification required, as a result of this change, on the Company's consolidated results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The adoption of the new accounting rules only impacted the classification of expenses on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings and did not impact the Company’s consolidated income, statements of financial condition, or cash flows. StandardDescriptionEffective DateEffect on Financial Statements or Other Significant MattersASU 2018-15 Intangibles - Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use SoftwareThis update clarifies the accounting and capitalization of implementation costs in cloud computing arrangements that are service arrangements. The amendments in ASU 2018-15 are required to be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption.For fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted.The Company has not yet determined the impact of this ASU on its consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.ASU 2018-14 Compensation-Retirement Benefits-Defined Benefit PlansThis update modifies the disclosure requirements for employers that sponsor defined benefit pension or other post-retirement plans by removing and adding certain disclosures for these plans. Additional disclosures include descriptions of significant gains and losses affecting the benefit obligation for the period. The amendments in ASU 2018-14 would need to be applied on a retrospective basis. For fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020. Early adoption is permitted.The adoption of this guidance will modify disclosures but will not have an impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.9StandardDescriptionEffective DateEffect on Financial Statements or Other Significant MattersASU 2018-13 Fair Value MeasurementThis update modifies the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements. Certain disclosures in ASU 2018-13 would need to be applied on a retrospective basis and others on a prospective basis.For fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted.The adoption of this guidance will modify disclosures but will not have an impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.ASU 2018-09 Codification ImprovementsThis amendment makes changes to a variety of topics to clarify, correct errors in, or make minor improvements to the Accounting Standards Codification. The transition guidance is based on the facts and circumstances of each amendment. Some of the amendments do not require transition guidance and will be effective immediately. However, many of the amendments do have transition guidance with effective dates for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018.The transition and effective date guidance is based on the facts and circumstances of each amendment. This ASU requires a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after, the date of initial application.For fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted.The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 beginning on July 1, 2019. The Company has not yet determined the impact of this ASU on its consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.Note 3. The Company believes these revenue categories depict how the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of its revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors.HCM provides a suite of product offerings that assist employers of all types and sizes in all stages of the employment cycle, from recruitment to retirement. Global is generally consistent with the types of services provided within HCM but represent geographies outside of the United States and includes our multinational offerings. HCM and Global revenues are primarily attributable to fees for providing solutions for payroll, benefits, talent, retirement services and HR processing and fees charged to implement the Company's solutions for clients.HRO provides a comprehensive human resources outsourcing solution, including offering benefits, providing workers’ compensation insurance, and administering state unemployment insurance, among other human resources functions. Amounts collected from PEO worksite employers include payroll, fees for benefits, and an administrative fee that also includes payroll taxes, fees for workers’ compensation and state unemployment taxes. The payroll and payroll taxes collected from the worksite employers are presented in revenue net, as the Company does not retain risk and acts as an agent with respect to this aspect of the PEO arrangement. With respect to the payroll and payroll taxes, the worksite employer is primarily responsible for providing the service and has discretion in establishing wages. With respect to these fees, the Company is primarily 10responsible for fulfilling the service and has discretion in establishing price. The Company has further disaggregated HRO to separate out its PEO benefits pass-through revenues.The Company enters into service agreements with clients that include anywhere from one service to a full suite of services. The Company’s agreements vary in duration having a legally enforceable term of 30 days to 5 years. The performance obligations in the agreements are generally combined into one performance obligation, as they are considered a series of distinct services, and are satisfied over time because the client simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the Company performs the services. The fees are typically billed in the period in which services are performed. The Company recognizes client fund interest revenues on collected but not yet remitted funds held for clients in revenues as earned, as the collection, holding and remittance of these funds are critical components of providing these services.Collection of consideration the Company expects to receive typically occurs within 30 to 60 days of billing. Therefore, the Company does not recognize a contract asset or liability resulting from the timing of revenue recognition and invoicing.Set up fees received from certain clients to implement the Company's solutions are considered a material right. Therefore, the Company defers revenue associated with these set up fees and records them over the period in which such clients are expected to benefit from the material right, which is approximately five to seven years. The Company has previously expensed these costs as incurred. Expected renewal periods are only included in the expected client relationship period if commission amounts paid upon renewal are not commensurate with amounts paid on the initial contract. Incremental costs of obtaining a contract include only those costs the Company incurs to obtain a contract that it would not have incurred if the contract had not been obtained. The expected client relationship period ranges from three to eight years. These costs are included in operating expenses. The Company has estimated the amortization periods for the deferred costs by using its historical retention by business unit to estimate the pattern during which the service transfers. Deferred costs are periodically reviewed for impairment. There were no impairment losses incurred during the period. The acquisition of GCC makes ADP the only human capital management provider with a proprietary digital payments processing platform. The results of GCC are reported within the Company’s Employer Services segment. The goodwill recorded as a result of the GCC transaction represents future economic benefits we expect to achieve as a result of the acquisition and expected cost synergies. None of the goodwill resulting from the acquisition is tax deductible. Intangible assets for GCC, which totaled $132.5 million, included technology and software, and customer contracts and lists which are being amortized over a weighted average life of approximately 8 years. These acquisitions, individually or in aggregate, were not material to the Company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows and, therefore, the pro forma impact of these acquisitions is not presented. The results of these acquisitions are reported within the Company’s Employer Services segment. Note 5. Service Alignment InitiativeOn July 28, 2016, the Company announced a Service Alignment Initiative that simplified the Company's service organization by aligning the Company's service operations to its strategic platforms and locations. In fiscal 2016, the Company entered into leases in Norfolk, Virginia and Maitland, Florida, and in fiscal 2017, the Company entered into a lease in Tempe, Arizona as part of this effort. The Company began incurring charges during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Note 7. Refer to Note 2 and Note 12 for further information. The Company wrote down $12.1 million of internally developed software which was determined to have no future use due to redundant software identified as part of a recent acquisition. Note 8. All available-for-sale securities were included in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. All available-for-sale securities were included in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. For a description of the fair value hierarchy and the Company's fair value methodologies, including the use of an independent third-party pricing service, see Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2018. The Company did not transfer any assets between Levels during the three months ended September 30, 2018 or fiscal 2018. In addition, the Company concurred with and did not adjust the prices obtained from the independent pricing service. At September 30, 2018, asset-backed securities include AAA rated senior tranches of securities with predominantly prime collateral of fixed-rate credit card, auto loan, equipment lease, and rate reduction receivables with fair values of $2,018.3 million, $1,799.5 million, $467.6 million, and $189.1 million, respectively. These securities are collateralized by the cash flows of the underlying pools of receivables. The primary risk associated with these securities is the collection risk of the underlying receivables. All collateral on such asset-backed securities has performed as expected through September 30, 2018.At September 30, 2018, U.S. government agency securities primarily include debt directly issued by Federal Home Loan Banks and Federal Farm Credit Banks with fair values of $1,785.7 million and $678.5 million, respectively. The client funds obligations represent liabilities that will be repaid within one year of the balance sheet date. The Company has reported client funds obligations as a current liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets totaling $25,798.9 million and $27,493.5 million at September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively. The Company has classified funds held for clients as a current asset since these funds are held solely for the purposes of satisfying the client funds obligations. The liabilities held within the trust are intercompany liabilities to other Company subsidiaries and eliminate in consolidation.The Company has reported the cash flows related to the purchases of corporate and client funds marketable securities and related to the proceeds from the sales and maturities of corporate and client funds marketable securities on a gross basis in the investing section of the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows. The Company has reported the cash and cash equivalents related to client funds investments with original maturities of ninety days or less, within the beginning and ending balances of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents. These amounts have been reconciled to the Consolidated Balance Sheets on the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows. All available-for-sale securities were rated as investment grade at September 30, 2018. All intangible assets have finite lives and, as such, are subject to amortization. Short-term FinancingThe Company has a $3.8 billion, 364-day credit agreement that matures in June 2019 with a one year term-out option. The Company also has a $2.25 billion five-year credit facility that matures in June 2022 that also contains an accordion feature under which the aggregate commitment can be increased by $500 million, subject to the availability of additional commitments. In addition, the Company has a five-year $3.75 billion credit facility maturing in June 2023 that contains an accordion feature under which the aggregate commitment can be increased by $500 million, subject to the availability of additional commitments. The interest rate applicable to committed borrowings is tied to LIBOR, the effective federal funds rate, or the prime rate, depending on the notification provided by the Company to the syndicated financial institutions prior to borrowing. The Company is also required to pay facility fees on the credit agreements. The primary uses of the credit facilities are to provide liquidity to the commercial paper program and funding for general corporate purposes, if necessary. The Company had no borrowings through September 30, 2018 under the credit agreements.19The Company's U.S. short-term funding requirements related to client funds are sometimes obtained on an unsecured basis through the issuance of commercial paper, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. This commercial paper program provides for the issuance of up to $9.8 billion in aggregate maturity value. These ratings denote the highest quality commercial paper securities. Maturities of commercial paper can range from overnight to up to 364 days. At September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, the Company had no commercial paper outstanding. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company had average daily borrowings of $3.7 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 2.0% and 1.2%, respectively. The weighted average maturity of the Company’s commercial paper during the three months ended September 30, 2018 was approximately two days. The Company’s U.S., Canadian and United Kingdom short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations are sometimes obtained on a secured basis through the use of reverse repurchase agreements, which are collateralized principally by government and government agency securities, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. These agreements generally have terms ranging from overnight to up to five business days. At September 30, 2018, the Company had $453.0 million of outstanding obligations related to the reverse repurchase agreements. All outstanding reverse repurchase obligations matured and were fully paid as of October 4, 2018. At June 30, 2018, there were no outstanding obligations related to the reverse repurchase agreements. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company had average outstanding balances under reverse repurchase agreements of $495.1 million and $526.2 million, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 1.7% and 1.1%, respectively. Note 11. As of September 30, 2018, the fair value of the Notes, based on Level 2 inputs, was $1,979.4 million. For a description of the fair value hierarchy and the Company's fair value methodologies, including the use of an independent third-party service, see Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2018. Note 12. Employee Benefit PlansA. Stock-based Compensation Plans. Stock options are granted to employees at exercise prices equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the dates of grant. Stock options generally vest ratably over 4 years and have a term of 10 years. Compensation expense is measured based on the fair value of the stock option on the grant date and recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Stock options are forfeited if the employee ceases to be employed by the Company prior to vesting. 20•Restricted Stock.•Time-Based Restricted Stock and Time-Based Restricted Stock Units. Time-based restricted stock and time-based restricted stock units granted September 1, 2018 and after generally vest ratably over 3 years. Time-based restricted stock and time-based restricted stock units granted prior to September 1, 2018 are generally subject to a vesting period of two years. Awards are forfeited if the employee ceases to be employed by the Company prior to vesting. Compensation expense is measured based on the fair value of the grant at grant date and recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Time-based restricted stock cannot be transferred during the vesting period. Compensation expense relating to the issuance of time-based restricted stock is measured based on the fair value of the award on the grant date and recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Dividends are paid on shares awarded under the time-based restricted stock program. Time-based restricted stock units are settled in cash and cannot be transferred during the vesting period. Compensation expense relating to the issuance of time-based restricted stock units is recorded over the vesting period and is initially based on the fair value of the award on the grant date and is subsequently remeasured at each reporting date during the vesting period based on the change in the ADP stock price. No dividend equivalents are paid on units awarded under the time-based restricted stock unit program. •Performance-Based Restricted Stock and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units. Performance-based restricted stock and performance-based restricted stock units generally vest over a one to three year performance period and a subsequent service period of up to 38 months. Under these programs, the Company communicates "target awards" at the beginning of the performance period with possible payouts at the end of the performance period ranging from 0% to 150% of the "target awards." Awards are generally forfeited if the employee ceases to be employed by the Company prior to vesting. Performance-based restricted stock cannot be transferred during the vesting period. Compensation expense relating to the issuance of performance-based restricted stock is recognized over the vesting period based on the fair value of the award on the grant date with subsequent adjustments to the number of shares awarded during the performance period based on probable and actual performance against targets. After the performance period, if the performance targets are achieved, employees are eligible to receive dividends during the remaining vesting period on shares awarded under the performance-based restricted stock program.Performance-based restricted stock units cannot be transferred and are settled in either cash or stock, depending on the employee's home country. Compensation expense relating to the issuance of performance-based restricted stock units settled in cash is recognized over the vesting period initially based on the fair value of the award on the grant date with subsequent adjustments to the number of units awarded during the performance period based on probable and actual performance against targets. In addition, compensation expense is remeasured at each reporting period during the vesting period based on the change in the ADP stock price. Compensation expense relating to the issuance of performance-based restricted stock units settled in stock is recorded over the vesting period based on the fair value of the award on the grant date with subsequent adjustments to the number of units awarded based on the probable and actual performance against targets. Dividend equivalents are paid on awards under the performance-based restricted stock unit program. •Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The Company offers an employee stock purchase plan that allows eligible employees to purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to 95% of the market value for the Company's common stock on the last day of the offering period. This plan has been deemed non-compensatory and, therefore, no compensation expense has been recorded.The Company currently utilizes treasury stock to satisfy stock option exercises, issuances under the Company's employee stock purchase plan, and restricted stock awards. From time to time, the Company may repurchase shares of its common stock under its authorized share repurchase programs. The Company repurchased 1.6 million and 2.2 million shares in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The early retirement offer was made to about 3,500 eligible associates, or approximately 6 percent of the Company’s workforce, with approximately 2,200 ADP associates opting to participate. The Company also extended to all employees participating in the VERP the opportunity to continue health care coverage at active employee contribution rates for up to 24 months following retirement. The Company recorded $9.3 million of expenses within selling, general, and administrative expenses related to the continuing health coverage for VERP participants who exited the Company during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and anticipates recording a charge for the remaining participants who will exit and continue health coverage during remainder of fiscal 2019, which may total up to $26 million, but is based on the number of associates electing this benefit and the health care option selected by each associate.In addition, the Company recorded a $14.0 million non-cash settlement charge and $1.3 million of special termination benefits during the period. The Company anticipates recording additional non-cash settlement charges up to $15 million through the remainder of fiscal 2019, within Other income, net, on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings, contingent on the number of participants electing the lump sum payment option and other actuarial assumptions, including the discount rate and long-term rate of return on assets. Note 13. Income TaxesThe effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was 21.9% and 27.0%, respectively. In accordance with ASC 740 companies are required to re-measure deferred tax balances using the new enacted tax rates. The Act requires the Company to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of the Company's foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred for U.S. income taxes and creates new taxes on the Company's foreign sourced earnings. The Company included the estimated impact of the Act in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, which provides guidance on accounting for the impact of the Act, in the Company's financial results for the year ended June 30, 2018. 23Income tax expense reported for the three months ended September 30, 2018 includes a benefit of $1.1 million related to the Act. The $1.1 million is comprised of adjustments to the one-time transition tax and valuation allowance against the Company's foreign tax credits which may not be realized. The Act’s foreign tax credit provisions may limit the Company’s ability to utilize existing foreign tax credits in future periods, accordingly we have estimated that approximately $19.2 million could expire unutilized. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company did not record an adjustment to this provisional amount. The Company recorded a provisional amount for the one-time transition tax liability of $22.2 million for the Company's foreign subsidiaries. Further, the transition tax is based in part on the amount of those earnings held in cash and other specified assets. The Company expects to complete its analysis and provisional estimates during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and record an adjustment to tax expense, if applicable. Note 14. Commitments and ContingenciesIn June 2018, a potential class action complaint was filed against ADP in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois. The complaint asserts that ADP violated the Illinois Biometric Privacy Act, was negligent and unjustly enriched itself in connection with its collection, use and storage of biometric data of employees of its clients who are residents of Illinois in connection with certain services provided by ADP to clients in Illinois. The complaint seeks statutory and other unspecified monetary damages, injunctive relief and attorney’s fees. All of these claims are still in their earliest stages and the Company is unable to estimate any reasonably possible loss, or range of loss, with respect to these matters. The Company intends to vigorously defend against these lawsuits.The Company is subject to various claims, litigation and regulatory compliance matters in the normal course of business. When a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable, the Company records a liability in the amount of its best estimate for the ultimate loss. Management currently believes that the resolution of these claims, litigation and regulatory compliance matters against us, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. These matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future. It is not the Company’s business practice to enter into off-balance sheet arrangements. In the normal course of business, the Company may enter into contracts in which it makes representations and warranties that relate to the performance of the Company’s services and products. The Company does not expect any material losses related to such representations and warranties.24Note 15. The primary components of the “Other” segment are non-recurring gains and losses, miscellaneous processing services, the elimination of intercompany transactions, interest expense, and certain charges and expenses that have not been allocated to the reportable segments. Certain revenues and expenses are charged to the reportable segments at a standard rate for management reasons. Other costs are recorded based on management responsibility. Additionally, the CODM reviews results with changes to certain corporate allocations. These changes represent a change in the measure of segment performance. The segment results in the table below reflect the impacts of adoption of ASC 606, the inclusion of client funds interest in the segments at actual interest rates, the inclusion of ADP Indemnity in the PEO segment, and changes to certain corporate allocations. The Company reflects these new segment measures beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and prior period segment results are restated for comparability. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words like “expects,” “assumes,” “projects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “we believe,” “could” and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management’s expectations and assumptions and depend upon or refer to future events or conditions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. ADP disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. These risks and uncertainties, along with the risk factors discussed under “Item 1A. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and other comprehensive income. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements. The estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts and circumstances. Actual amounts and results could differ from these estimates made by management. As a leader in this industry, we deliver on our global HCM strategy and make investments in highly strategic areas and technology in order to strengthen our underlying business model and prospects for continued growth. We are reshaping the HCM industry through innovative 27development of products such as our next-gen platforms which are complemented by our strategic acquisitions such as Global Cash Card, WorkMarket, and more recently, Celergo, a leading provider of multi-country payroll management services. With these investments we are enhancing our position as the only global HCM provider that can help businesses address the entire worker spectrum from full-time to freelancer and hire to retire. As the HCM market continues to rapidly evolve, we continue to be focused on staying ahead of the curve. Our Employer Services New Business Bookings increased 8% and the PEO Services' average number of Worksite Employees increased 9% to 528,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. We continue to see positive results from the investments made in recent years and are confident that the overall strong start to the year and continued momentum exhibited by our sales force will yield positive results and growth in our Employer Services New Business Bookings of 6% to 8% for fiscal 2019.Our Service Alignment Initiative, client migrations, and transformation initiatives are yielding improvements in our client satisfaction scores and productivity, keeping us firmly on a path of delivering balanced revenue and profit growth. We continue to focus on improving the client experience and are on track to achieve our goal of improved retention during fiscal 2019. We have a strong business model and operate in a growing global market. We continue to maintain a high percentage of recurring revenues and healthy margins, and generate consistent strong cash flows. Our financial condition and balance sheet remain solid at September 30, 2018, with cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1.5 billion. We believe that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by management and improves their ability to understand and assess our operating performance. The nature of these exclusions are for specific items that are not fundamental to our underlying business operations. The adjustments in the table above represent the interest income and interest expense that is not related to our client funds extended investment strategy and are labeled as "All other interest expense" and "All other interest income." Charges related to our VERP in the three months ended September 30, 2018 include $14.0 million for a non-cash pension settlement charge, $1.3 million of charges for special termination benefits, and $9.3 million of expenses related to the continuing health coverage. We also recorded charges of $12.3 million related to our other transformation initiatives. These charges were partially offset by net reversals of charges related to our Service Alignment Initiative of $4.4 million. Unlike other severance charges which are not included as an adjustment to get to adjusted results, these specific charges relate to actions that are part of our broad-based, company-wide transformation initiative. Refer to Note 13 of our Consolidated Financial statements for additional detail. "Constant currency basis" is determined by calculating the current year result using foreign exchange rates consistent with the prior year.Total RevenuesOur revenues, as reported, increased 8% for three months ended September 30, 2018. Our revenue growth includes one combined percentage point of benefit from acquisitions, partially offset by foreign currency. Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased primarily due to new business started from New Business Bookings. Total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 include interest on funds held for clients of $118.5 million, as compared to $99.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increase in the consolidated interest earned on funds held for clients resulted from an increase in the average interest rate earned to 2.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to 1.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2017, coupled with a increase in our average client funds balance of 4.5% to $22.2 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017.Total ExpensesOur total expenses, as reported, increased 5% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase is primarily due to an increase in PEO Services benefits pass-through costs, costs related to our acquisitions, and increased costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue. Total expenses also increased due to the impact of charges related to our transformation initiatives and costs related to acquisitions for the three months ended September 30, 2018.Operating expenses, as reported, increased 5% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. PEO Services benefits pass-through costs were $653.4 million and $595.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Additionally, operating expenses increased due to costs related to our acquisitions, and higher costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue partially offset by the impact of foreign currency. Systems development and programming costs, as reported, was flat for the three months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year, due to increased costs related to our acquisitions offset by the impact of foreign currency translation.Selling, general and administrative expenses, as reported, increased 6% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. We reclassified a net benefit of $16.4 million related to other components of net periodic pension cost for the three months ended September 30, 2017. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 non-service components of pension expense included a $14.0 million non-cash settlement charge and $1.3 million of special termination benefits partially offset by $13.7 million related to other components of net periodic pension cost. See Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail.Other income, net, decreased $28.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. The decrease was primarily due to the charges within non-service components of pension expense discussed above. Additionally, during the three months ended September 30, 2018, we wrote down $12.1 million of internally developed software which was determined to have no future use due to redundant software identified as part of a recent acquisition. Earnings before Income TaxesEarnings before income taxes, as reported, increased 14% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 primarily due to the increases in revenues partially offset by increases in expenses discussed above. Overall margin increased from 18.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2017 to 19.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 primarily due to operational and selling efficiencies for three months ended September 30, 2018 partially offset by costs related to our acquisitions, charges of $32.5 million related to our transformation initiatives, and incremental pressure from growth in our benefits pass-throughs. Our efficiencies driving margin performance are the result of improvements in our systems infrastructure spend and automation efforts, decreased dual operational costs related to our Service Alignment Initiative, and the successful execution of our broader transformation initiatives, including VERP. Adjusted EBITFor the three months ended September 30, 2018, adjusted EBIT increased 18% due to the increases in revenues offset by the increases in expenses discussed above. Overall adjusted EBIT margin increased due to operational and selling efficiencies offset by pressure from acquisitions and incremental pressure from growth in our benefits pass-throughs. Our efficiencies driving margin performance are the result of improvements in our systems infrastructure spend and automation efforts, decreased dual operational costs related to our Service Alignment Initiative, and the successful execution of our broader transformation initiatives, including VERP. Provision for Income TaxesThe effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was 21.9% and 27.0%, respectively. Refer to Note 13, Income Taxes, within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.32Adjusted Provision for Income TaxesThe adjusted effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was 22.2% and 27.1%, respectively. The decrease in the adjusted effective tax rate is due to the impacts of the Act for the three months ended September 30, 2018 partially offset by the impact of benefits recognized from a foreign exchange loss realized on a distribution from a foreign subsidiary, the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions, and the usage of foreign tax credits in the three months ended three months ended September 30, 2017.Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings per ShareNet earnings, as reported, increased 22% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 due to the increase in earnings before income taxes and the reduction in our effective tax rate described above, when compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. Additionally, the CODM reviews results with the effects of changes to certain corporate allocations. These changes represent a change in the measure of segment performance. The segment results in the table below reflect the impacts of the adoption of ASC 606, the inclusion of client funds interest in our segments at actual interest rates, the inclusion of ADP Indemnity in the PEO segment, and changes to certain corporate allocations. We reflected these new segment measures beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and prior period segment results are restated for comparability. Revenues increased primarily due to new business started from New Business Bookings. Our revenue growth includes one percentage point of benefit from acquisitions partially offset by foreign currency. Our revenues also increased due to the interest earned on funds held for clients, which benefited from improvement in the average yield earned on our client fund investments and growth in average client funds balances, and an increase in the number of employees on our clients’ payrolls as our pays per control increased 2.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. Our pays per control metric measures the number of employees on our clients' payrolls as measured on a same-store-sales basis utilizing a representative subset of payrolls ranging from small to large businesses that are reflective of a broad range of U.S. geographic regions. Earnings before Income TaxesEmployer Services’ earnings before income taxes, as reported, increased 19% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. This increase was due to increased revenues discussed above partially offset by an increase in expenses of $58.4 million primarily due to costs related to our acquisitions and investments in operational resources to support our revenue growth.Employer Services' overall margin increased from 24.7% to 27.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. This increase was primarily due to operational efficiencies aided by an increase in interest earned on funds held for clients, partially offset by costs related to our acquisitions in the three months ended September 30, 2018. Our efficiencies driving margin performance are the result of improvements in our systems infrastructure spend and automation efforts, decreased dual operational costs related to our Service Alignment Initiative, and the successful execution of our broader transformation initiatives, including VERP. PEO ServicesRevenuesPEO Services' revenues, net, as reported, increased 10% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. PEO Services' revenues, excluding the impact of benefits pass-through costs, increased from $304.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 to $334.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 due to a 9% increase in the average number of Worksite Employees, driven by an increase in the number of new PEO Services clients and growth in our existing clients in the three months ended September 30, 2018.PEO Services' revenues include benefits pass-through costs associated with benefits coverage which increased to $653.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $595.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.34Earnings before Income TaxesPEO Services' earnings before income taxes increased 18% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increase was due to the increased revenues discussed above offset by an increase in expenses of $65.4 million. The increase in expenses was primarily related to an increase in benefits pass-through costs of $58.1 million described above. PEO Services' overall margin increased from 13.7% to 14.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017 due to operating and selling efficiencies partially offset by changes in our estimated incurred losses related to ADP Indemnity in the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017.ADP Indemnity provides workers' compensation and employer's liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services' Worksite Employees up to $1 million per occurrence. PEO Services has secured a workers’ compensation and employer’s liability insurance policy that has a $1 million per occurrence retention and, in fiscal years 2012 and prior, aggregate stop loss insurance that covers any aggregate losses within the $1 million retention that collectively exceed a certain level, from an admitted and licensed insurance company of AIG. We utilize historical loss experience and actuarial judgment to determine the estimated claim liability and changes in estimated ultimate incurred losses are included in the PEO segment. ADP Indemnity recorded a pre-tax benefit of approximately $8.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to $12.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017, which is primarily a result of changes in our estimated incurred losses. For the fiscal years 2013 to 2018, ADP Indemnity paid premiums to enter into reinsurance arrangements with ACE American Insurance Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chubb Limited, to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity during these policy years. Each of these reinsurance arrangements limits our overall exposure incurred up to a certain limit. We believe the likelihood of ultimate losses exceeding this limit is remote. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, ADP Indemnity paid a premium of $218.0 million to enter into a reinsurance arrangement with Chubb Limited to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for the fiscal 2019 policy year on terms substantially similar to the fiscal 2018 reinsurance policy. OtherThe primary components of the “Other” segment are certain corporate overhead charges and expenses that have not been allocated to the reportable segments, including corporate functions, costs related to our transformation office, non-recurring gains and losses, miscellaneous processing services, the elimination of intercompany transactions, and interest expense.FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCESFor corporate liquidity, we expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, long-term marketable securities, and cash flow from operations together with our $9.8 billion of committed credit facilities and our ability to access both long-term and short-term debt financing from the capital markets will be adequate to meet our operating, investing, and financing activities such as our regular quarterly dividends, share repurchases, and capital expenditures. Additionally, we will benefit from the Act. Our estimated fiscal 2019 adjusted effective tax rate is 24.5% and we anticipate a future adjusted effective tax rate, excluding one time items, of 25% to 26% beyond fiscal 2019. For client funds liquidity, we have the ability to borrow through our financing arrangements under our U.S. short-term commercial paper program and our U.S., Canadian and United Kingdom short-term reverse repurchase agreements together with our $9.8 billion of committed credit facilities and our ability to use corporate liquidity when necessary to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. Please see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" for a further discussion of the risks of our client funds investment strategy. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our short-term financing including commercial paper. The change is due to unfavorable changes in the components of working capital partially offset by growth in our business as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. Net cash flows from investing activities changed primarily due to the timing of proceeds from corporate and client funds marketable securities of $66.4 million and payments made related to acquisitions partially offset by reduced capital expenditures in the three months ended September 30, 2018.Net cash flows from financing activities changed due to increased proceeds from reverse repurchase agreements partially offset by a net decrease in client fund obligations of $37.2 million, which is due to the timing of impounds from our clients and payments to our clients' employees and other payees and less cash paid for share repurchases. Additionally, we reduced share repurchases which were partially offset by cash returned to shareholders via dividends, which increased $48.9 million from the three months ended September 30, 2017.We purchased 1.6 million shares of our common stock at an average price per share of $138.59 during the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to purchases of 2.2 million shares at an average price per share of $105.80 during the three months ended September 30, 2017. From time to time, the Company may repurchase shares of its common stock under its authorized share repurchase programs. The Company considers several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, actual and potential acquisition activity, cash balances and cash flows, issuances due to employee benefit plan activity, and market conditions. Capital Resources and Client Funds ObligationsWe have $2.0 billion of senior unsecured notes with maturity dates in 2020 and 2025. We may from time to time revisit the long-term debt market to refinance existing debt, finance investments including acquisitions for our growth, and maintain the appropriate capital structure. However, there can be no assurance that volatility in the global capital and credit markets would not impair our ability to access these markets on terms acceptable to us, or at all. See Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our long-term financing.Our U.S. short-term funding requirements related to client funds are sometimes obtained on an unsecured basis through the issuance of commercial paper, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. This commercial paper program provides for the issuance of up to $9.8 billion in aggregate maturity value. These ratings denote the highest quality commercial paper securities. Maturities of commercial paper can range from overnight to up to 364 days. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, our average daily borrowings were $3.7 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 2.0% and 1.2%, respectively. The weighted average maturity of our commercial paper during the three months ended September 30, 2018 was approximately two days. At September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, we had no outstanding obligations under our short-term commercial paper program. 36Our U.S., Canadian and United Kingdom short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations are sometimes obtained on a secured basis through the use of reverse repurchase agreements, which are collateralized principally by government and government agency securities, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. These agreements generally have terms ranging from overnight to up to five business days. We have successfully borrowed through the use of reverse repurchase agreements on an as-needed basis to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. At September 30, 2018, we had $453.0 million of outstanding obligations related to the reverse repurchase agreements. All outstanding reverse repurchase obligations matured and were fully paid as of October 4, 2018. At June 30, 2018, there were no outstanding obligations related to the reverse repurchase agreements. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we had average outstanding balances under reverse repurchase agreements of $495.1 million and $526.2 million, at weighted average interest rates of 1.7% and 1.1%, respectively. We vary the maturities of our committed credit facilities to limit the refinancing risk of any one facility. We have a $3.8 billion, 364-day credit agreement that matures in June 2019 with a one year term-out option. In addition, we have a five-year $2.25 billion credit facility and a five-year $3.75 billion credit facility maturing in June 2022 and June 2023, respectively, each with an accordion feature under which the aggregate commitment can be increased by $500.0 million, subject to the availability of additional commitments. The primary uses of the credit facilities are to provide liquidity to the commercial paper program and funding for general corporate purposes, if necessary. We had no borrowings through September 30, 2018 under the credit facilities. We believe that we currently meet all conditions set forth in the revolving credit agreements to borrow thereunder and we are not aware of any conditions that would prevent us from borrowing part or all of the $9.8 billion available to us under the revolving credit agreements. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our short-term financing including credit facilities.Our investment portfolio does not contain any asset-backed securities with underlying collateral of sub-prime mortgages, alternative-A mortgages, sub-prime auto loans or sub-prime home equity loans, collateralized debt obligations, collateralized loan obligations, credit default swaps, derivatives, auction rate securities, structured investment vehicles or non-investment grade fixed-income securities. We own AAA rated senior tranches of fixed rate credit card, auto loan, equipment lease and rate reduction receivables, secured predominantly by prime collateral. All collateral on asset-backed securities is performing as expected. In addition, we own senior debt directly issued by Federal Home Loan Banks and Federal Farm Credit Banks. This investment strategy is supported by our short-term financing arrangements necessary to satisfy short-term funding requirements relating to client funds obligations. See Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our corporate investments and funds held for clients.Capital expenditures for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $42.1 million, as compared to $61.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2019 are expected to be about $225 million as compared to $192 million in fiscal 2018. All of our short-term and long-term fixed-income securities are classified as available-for-sale securities.Our client funds assets are invested with safety of principal, liquidity, and diversification as the primary objectives. Consistent with those objectives, we also seek to maximize interest income and to minimize the volatility of interest income. Client funds assets are invested in highly liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, with a maximum maturity of 10 years at the time of purchase, and money market securities and other cash equivalents. We utilize a strategy by which we extend the maturities of our investment portfolio for funds held for clients and employ short-term financing arrangements to satisfy our short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. As part of our client funds investment strategy, we use the daily collection of funds from our clients to satisfy other unrelated client funds obligations, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. We minimize the risk of not having funds collected from a client available at the time such client’s obligation becomes due by impounding, in virtually all instances, the client’s funds in advance of the timing of payment of such client’s obligation. As a result of this practice, we have consistently maintained the required level of client funds assets to satisfy all of our obligations.There are inherent risks and uncertainties involving our investment strategy relating to our client funds assets. Such risks include liquidity risk, including the risk associated with our ability to liquidate, if necessary, our available-for-sale securities in a timely manner in order to satisfy our client funds obligations. However, our investments are made with the safety of principal, liquidity, and diversification as the primary goals to minimize the risk of not having sufficient funds to satisfy all of our client funds obligations. The reduced availability of financing during periods of economic turmoil, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings, may limit our ability to access short-term debt markets to meet the liquidity needs of our business. In addition to liquidity risk, our investments are subject to interest rate risk and credit risk, as discussed below.We have established credit quality, maturity, and exposure limits for our investments. The minimum allowed credit rating at time of purchase for corporate, Canadian government agency and Canadian provincial bonds is BBB, for asset-backed securities is AAA, and for municipal bonds is A. The maximum maturity at time of purchase for BBB rated securities is 5 years, for single A rated securities is 7 years, and for AA rated and AAA rated securities is 10 years. Factors that influence the earnings impact of interest rate changes include, among others, the amount of invested funds and the overall portfolio mix between short-term and long-term investments. This mix varies during the fiscal year and is impacted by daily interest rate changes. The annualized interest rates earned on our entire portfolio increased from 1.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2017 to 2.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018. A hypothetical change in only short-term interest rates of 25 basis points applied to the estimated average short-term investment balances and any related short-term borrowings would result in approximately a $4 million impact to earnings before income taxes over the ensuing twelve-month period ending September 30, 2019. We are exposed to credit risk in connection with our available-for-sale securities through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the securities. Approximately 79% of our available-for-sale securities held a AAA or AA rating at September 30, 2018. In addition, we limit amounts that can be invested in any security other than U.S. government and government agency, Canadian government, and United Kingdom government securities.We operate and transact business in various foreign jurisdictions and are therefore exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. We manage our exposure to these market risks through our regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We may use derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading purposes. We had no derivative financial instruments outstanding at September 30, 2018. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTSSee Note 2, New Accounting Pronouncements, of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskThe information called for by this item is provided under the caption "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" under Item 2 – Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Item 4. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. OTHER INFORMATIONExcept as noted below, all other items are either inapplicable or would result in negative responses and, therefore, have been omitted.Item 1. Legal ProceedingsIn the normal course of business, the Company is subject to various claims and litigation. While the outcome of any litigation is inherently unpredictable, the Company believes it has valid defenses with respect to the legal matters pending against it and the Company believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.Item 1A. Risk FactorsThere have been no material changes in our risk factors disclosed in Part 1, Item 1A, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.40Item 2. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.2Certification by Jan Siegmund pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 101.INSXBRL instance document 101.SCHXBRL taxonomy extension schema document 101.CALXBRL taxonomy extension calculation linkbase document 101.LABXBRL taxonomy label linkbase document 101.PREXBRL taxonomy extension presentation linkbase document 101.DEFXBRL taxonomy extension definition linkbase document42SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.