Employer Identification No. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer” “accelerated filer” “smaller reporting company” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. The results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full year. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.Recent DevelopmentsDuring the second quarter of 2018, the Company modified its internal reporting structure to better align the way financial information is reported to and analyzed by executive leadership, in part, as a result of recent acquisitions contributing to the growth within the newly aligned Services and Software segment. 2016-02, "Leases," which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. The ASU is effective for the Company on January 1, 2019 and interim periods within that reporting period, with early adoption permitted. The Company will adopt the ASU on January 1, 2019, utilizing the modified retrospective method upon adoption. The Company has begun to assess the impact of the ASU on its financial statements, including the package of available practical expedients, required disclosures, and changes to internal controls. Based on the preliminary work completed, the Company expects a material impact to its balance sheet through the recording of right-of-use assets and lease obligations that were not required to be recorded within the balance sheet under current accounting standards.In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. The ASU expands and refines hedge accounting for both financial and non-financial risk components, aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of hedging instruments and hedge items in the financial statements, and includes certain targeted improvements to ease the application of current guidance related to the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The guidance related to cash flow and net investment hedges existing at the date of adoption should be applied using the modified retrospective method by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The guidance related to presentation and disclosure should be applied prospectively. The Company is currently assessing the impact of this ASU, including transition elections and required elections, on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures.Recently Adopted Accounting PronouncementsThe Company adopted ASU No. The Company recognized $30 million related to the cumulative effect of applying the ASU as an adjustment to its opening retained earnings balance. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under accounting standards in effect in those periods. This ASU eliminates the prior application of deferring the income tax effect of intra-entity asset transfers, other than inventory, until the transferred asset is sold to a third party or otherwise recovered through use. Under the ASU, the Company will recognize tax expense when intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory occur. The Company adopted ASU No. The Company has restated its comparative period results to reflect the application of the presentation guidance of the ASU. The Company recorded $20 million and $4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively, and $40 million and $1 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively.The Company adopted ASU No. The Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to its opening retained earnings. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods. The Company has retained much of the same accounting treatment used to recognize revenue under ASC 606 as under accounting standards in effect in prior periods. Revenue on a significant portion of its System and Integration services contracts continues to be recognized under percentage of completion accounting, applying a cost-to-cost method. Services contracts continue to be recognized ratably over relevant contract terms as the Company stands ready to perform. Finally, revenue on equipment sales continues to be recognized based on delivery terms as aligned with the transfer of control.Under the new standard, the Company identified distinct promises to transfer goods and services within its contracts. For system contracts that are recognized under percentage of completion accounting, the Company has considered the factors used to determine whether promises made in the contract are distinct and determined that devices and accessories represent distinct goods. Accordingly, adoption of the new standard impacts the Company's system contracts, with the result being revenue recognized earlier as control of devices and accessories transfers to the customer at a point in time rather than over time. For the remaining promised goods and services within the Company's system contracts, it continues to recognize revenue on these contracts using a cost-to-cost method based on the continuous transfer of control to the customer over time. Under the new standard, revenue recognition for software sales is accelerated based on when control of software licenses and related support services are transferred to the customer. Amounts deferred under previous software accounting rules due to lack of vendor-specific objective evidence have been recognized as an adjustment through opening retained earnings. Historically, the Company presented transactions that involved a third-party sales representative on a net basis. After considering the control concept and the remaining three indicators of gross presentation under the new standard, the Company has determined that it is the principal in contracts that involve a third-party sales representative. Thus, under the new standard, the Company presents associated revenues on a gross basis, with the affect being an equal increase to selling, general and administrative expenses for its cost of third-party commissions.Under prior accounting standards, the Company expensed sales commissions and other costs to obtain a contract as incurred. However, under the new standard, the Company capitalizes sales commissions and certain other costs as incremental costs to obtain a contract. Such costs are classified as a non-current contract cost assets within Other assets and amortized over a period that approximates the timing of revenue recognition on the underlying contracts.The new standard clarified the definition of a receivable and requires the Company to present its net position in a contract with a customer on the balance sheet. The position is presented as either a receivable, contract asset, or a contract liability. Under the new definition, accounts receivable are unconditional rights to consideration from a customer. Contract assets represent rights to consideration from a customer in exchange for transferred goods and services that are conditional on events other than the passage of time. Contract liabilities represent obligations to transfer goods and services for which the Company has received, or is due, consideration from a customer respectively. The Company reclassified its customer positions to align with the new definitions and presentation guidance. Accordingly, Unbilled accounts receivable and Costs and earnings in excess of billings have been reclassified from Accounts receivable and Other current assets, respectively, and are presented as Contract assets. Accounts receivable which are not due from customers have been reclassified into Other current assets. Deferred revenue, Billings in excess of costs and earnings, and Customer downpayments have been reclassified from Accrued liabilities and are presented as Contract liabilities. 92. Revenue from Contracts with CustomersThe Company adopted ASC 606 and all the related amendments on January 1, 2018, applying the modified retrospective method to all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 for contracts that were open as of the date of adoption is recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption. All of the periods prior to the adoption of ASC 606 will continue to reflect the financial results recognized under the guidance of the previous revenue recognition standard. In accordance with ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenue to reflect the transfer of control of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for goods or services. Direct customers of the Products and Systems Integration segment are typically government public safety and first-responder agencies, procuring at state, local, and federal levels as well as large commercial customers with secure mission critical needs. Indirect customers are defined as customers purchasing professional commercial radios and Avigilon video solutions, which are primarily sold through the Company's reseller partners to an end-customer base, composed of various industries where private communications networks and video solutions are used to secure operations and enable a mobile workforce. Contracts with the Company's customers are typically fixed fee, with consideration measured net of associated sales taxes, and, as it relates to our direct customers, funded through government appropriations. Devices also includes video surveillance cameras sold by Avigilon. Devices are considered capable of being distinct and distinct within the context of our contracts. Revenue is recognized upon the transfer of control of the devices to the customer at a point in time, typically consistent with delivery under the applicable shipping terms. Devices are sold by both the direct sales force and through reseller partners. Revenue is generally recognized upon transfer of devices to reseller partners, rather than the end-customer, except for limited consignment arrangements. Radio network includes the aggregation of promises to the customer to provide the radio network core and central processing software, base stations, consoles, and repeaters. These individual promises are not distinct in the context of the contract, as the Company provides a significant service of integrating and customizing the goods and services promised. The radio network represents distinct performance obligations for which revenue is recognized over time, as the Company creates an asset with no alternative use and has an enforceable right to payment for work performed. The Company's revenue recognition over time is based on an input measure of costs incurred, which depicts the transfer of control to its customers under its contracts. Avigilon security and surveillance video solutions are traditionally sold through reseller partners, with contracts negotiated under fixed pricing. Provisions for returns are determined on a portfolio basis using historical data. Revenue is recognized upon the transfer of control of the end-to-end video solution to the reseller partners, typically upon shipment. Direct customers of the Services and Software segment are typically government public safety and first-responder agencies and municipalities. Indirect customers are commercial customers who distribute broadband push-to-talk services to a final end customer base. Managed service offerings range from partial to full operation of customer or Motorola Solutions owned networks. Services are provided across all radio network technologies. Services are both distinct and capable of being distinct in the context of the contract, representing a series of recurring services that the Company stands ready to perform over the contract term. Since services contracts typically allow for customers to terminate for convenience or for non-appropriations of fiscal funding, the contract term is generally considered to be limited to a monthly or annual basis, subject to customer renewal. While contracts with customers are typically fixed fee, certain managed services contracts may be subject to variable consideration related to the achievement of service level agreement performance measurements. The Company has not historically paid significant penalties under service level agreements, and accordingly, it does not constrain its contract price. Certain contracts may also contain variable consideration driven by number of users. Revenue is typically recognized on services over time as a series of services performed over the contract term on a straight-line basis. Solutions delivered as a service consist of a range of promises including hosted software, technical support and the right to unspecified future software enhancements. Software is not distinct from the hosting service since the customer does not have the right to take possession of the software at any time during the term of the arrangement. The hosted software, technical support, and right to unspecified future software enhancements each represent a series of distinct services that are delivered concurrently using the same over-time method. As such, the promises are accounted for as a single performance obligation with revenue recognized on a straight-line basis. On-premise offerings consist of multiple promises primarily including software licenses and post-contract customer support. The promises are each distinct and distinct within the context of the contract as the customer benefits from each promise individually without any significant integration or interrelationship between the promises. On-premise software revenue is recognized at the point in time when the customer can benefit from the software which generally aligns with the beginning of the license period. Revenue for post-contract customer support is recognized over-time as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the services on a straight-line basis.Significant Judgments The Company enters into arrangements which consist of multiple promises to our customers. The Company evaluates whether the promised goods and services are distinct or a series of distinct goods or services. The Company accounts for certain system contracts on an over time basis, electing an input method of estimated costs as a measure of performance completed. The selection of the measurement of progress using estimated costs was based on a thorough consideration of alternatives of various output and input measures, including contract milestones and labor hours. However, the Company has determined that other input and output measures are not an appropriate measure of progress as they do not accurately align with the transfer of control on its customized product solutions. Total Estimated Costs at Completion include direct labor, material and subcontracting costs. Due to the nature of the efforts required to be performed to meet the underlying performance obligation, determining Estimated Costs at Completion may be complex and subject to many variables. We have a standard and disciplined quarterly process in which management reviews the progress and performance of open contracts in order to determine the best estimate of Estimated Costs at Completion. As part of this process, management reviews information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion, the project schedule, identified risks and opportunities, and the related changes in estimates of costs. The 12risks and opportunities include management’s judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the project schedule, technical requirements, and other contract requirements. Management must make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of work to be performed, the availability and cost of materials, and performance by subcontractors, among other variables. Based on this analysis, any quarterly adjustment to net sales, cost of sales, and the related impact to operating income are recorded as necessary in the period they become known. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed estimates of total revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined.Remaining Performance Obligations Remaining performance obligations represent the revenue that is expected to be recognized in future periods related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied, or partially unsatisfied, as of the end of a period. The transaction price associated with remaining performance obligations which are not yet satisfied as of June 30, 2018 is $6.2 billion. A total of $3.1 billion is from Products and Systems Integration performance obligations that are not yet satisfied, of which $1.7 billion is expected to be recognized in the next 12 months. The remaining amounts will generally be satisfied over time as systems are implemented. A total of $3.1 billion is from Services and Software performance obligations that are not yet satisfied as of June 30, 2018. The determination of Services and Software performance obligations that are not satisfied takes into account a contract term that may be limited by the customer’s ability to terminate for convenience. Where termination for convenience exists in the Company's Services contracts, its disclosure of the remaining performance obligations that are unsatisfied assumes the contract term is limited until renewal. The Company expects to recognize $1.1 billion from unsatisfied Services and Software performance obligations over the next 12 months, with the remaining performance obligations to be recognized over time as services are performed and software is implemented. Contract liabilities consist of amounts formerly classified Billings in excess of costs and earnings recognized, Customer downpayments and Deferred revenue.Payment terms on system contracts are typically tied to implementation milestones associated with progress on contracts, while revenue recognition is over-time based on a cost-to-cost method of measuring performance. The Company may recognize a contract asset or contract liability, depending on whether revenue has been recognized in excess of billings or billings in excess of revenue. Services contracts are typically billed in advance, generating Contract liabilities until the Company has performed the services. The Company does not record a financing component to contracts when it expects, at contract inception, that the period between the transfer of a promised good or service and related payment terms are less than a year.Revenue recognized during the three months ended June 30, 2018 which was previously included in Contract liabilities as of April 1, 2018 is $365 million. Revenue recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2018 which was previously included in Contract liabilities as of January 1, 2018 is $541 million. Revenue of $6 million was reversed during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and $3 million of revenue was recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2018 related to performance obligations satisfied, or partially satisfied, in previous periods, primarily driven by changes in the estimates of progress on system contracts. Contract cost assets are amortized into expense over a period that follows the 13passage of control to the customer over time. Incremental costs to obtain a contract with the Company's sales incentive plans are accounted for under a portfolio approach, with amortization ranging from one to four years to approximate the recognition of revenues over time. Where incremental costs to obtain a contract will be recognized in one year or less, the Company applies a practical expedient around expensing amounts as incurred. Amortization of contract cost assets was $11 million and $23 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. 3. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, the assumed exercise of 2.9 million options, including 2.4 million subject to market-based contingent stock agreements, were excluded because their inclusion would have been antidilutive. For the three months ended July 1, 2017, the assumed exercise of 2.1 million options, including 1.8 million subject to market-based contingent stock agreements, was excluded because their inclusion would have been antidilutive. The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. In the event of conversion, the Company intends to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash. The conversion price is adjusted for dividends declared through the date of settlement. Diluted earnings per share has been calculated based upon the amount by which the average stock price exceeds the conversion price. Depreciation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 was $84 million and $93 million, respectively. Strategic investments do not have readily determinable fair values and are recorded at cost less impairments and adjusted for observable fair value movements. The Company did not recognize any impairments or adjustments to fair value during the six months ended June 30, 2018.Company-owned life insurance policies were recorded at their cash surrender value of $81 million and $141 million, at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company withdrew $60 million of excess cash from its company-sponsored life insurance investments. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had unrealized gains of $8 million related to available-for-sale securities, which were realized upon the sale of the investment in the first half of 2018. During the three months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, Losses on the sale of investments and businesses were $1 million. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, Gains on the sale of investments and businesses were $10 million, compared to gains of $2 million during the six months ended July 1, 2017. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date.During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company paid an aggregate of $66 million, including transaction costs, to repurchase approximately 0.6 million shares at an average price of $101.54 per share. During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, the Company paid $168 million and $154 million, respectively, in cash dividends to holders of its common stock. During the first quarter of 2018, $400 million was borrowed under this facility for the Avigilon acquisition, of which $100 million was repaid during the three months ended June 30, 2018. As of June 30, 2018, the outstanding loan amount was $300 million. Subsequent to the quarter, the Company paid an additional $50 million. The 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments. The weighted average borrowing rate on outstanding amounts was 3.75%. An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line. The interest rate and facility fee are subject to adjustment if the Company's credit rating changes. The Company must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with its financial covenants as of June 30, 2018. Interest on the Term Loan is variable and indexed to LIBOR. Interest is payable monthly, subject to the Company's discretion. The weighted average borrowing rate for amounts outstanding during the six months ended June 30, 2018 was 3.35%. Net proceeds after issuance costs were $399 million. No additional borrowings are permitted and amounts borrowed and repaid or prepaid may not be re-borrowed.Also in conjunction with the acquisition of Avigilon in March 2018, the Company assumed $75 million of borrowings under Avigilon's revolving credit facility, of which $35 million was repaid during the first quarter of 2018 with the remaining $40 million paid during the second quarter of 2018, resulting in the closure of the facility.In February of 2018, the Company issued $500 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2028. The Company recognized net proceeds of $497 million after debt issuance costs and debt discounts. These proceeds were then used to make a $500 million contribution to the Company's U.S. pension plan.On August 25, 2015, the Company entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 2.00% Senior Convertible Notes which mature in September 2020. The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. The exercise price adjusts automatically for dividends. The value by which the Senior Convertible Notes exceeded their principal amount if converted as of June 30, 2018 was $682 million. In the event of conversion, the Company intends to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash.5. Risk ManagementForeign Currency RiskAs of June 30, 2018, the Company had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $681 million, compared to $507 million outstanding at December 31, 2017. The forward contracts have been designated as a net investment hedge which is in place to partially hedge the Company's British pound foreign currency exposure on its net investment in Airwave Solutions Limited. The gains and losses on the Company's net investment in British pound-denominated foreign operations, driven by changes in foreign exchange rates, are economically offset by movements in the fair values of the forward contracts designated as net investment hedges. Any changes in fair value of the net investment hedges are reflected as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss. As of June 30, 2018, the fair value of the derivative contracts was a $2 million liability.20Interest Rate RiskCertain of the Company's subsidiaries have variable interest loans denominated in the Euro and Chilean Peso. The Company has interest rate swap agreements in place which change the characteristics of interest rate payments from variable to maximum fixed-rate payments. The interest rate swaps are not designated as hedges. The fair value of the interest rate swaps was de minimus at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.Counterparty RiskThe use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to counterparty credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties. However, the Company’s risk is limited to the fair value of the instruments when the derivative is in an asset position. The Company actively monitors its exposure to credit risk. As of June 30, 2018, all of the counterparties have investment grade credit ratings. Income TaxesAt the end of each interim reporting period, the Company makes an estimate of its annual effective income tax rate. Tax expense in interim periods is calculated at the estimated annual effective tax rate plus or minus the tax effects of items of income and expense that are discrete to the period. The estimate used in providing for income taxes on a year-to-date basis may change in subsequent interim periods. The effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2018 was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to a favorable settlement of a state audit, resulting in a tax benefit. The effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2017 was greater than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% partly due to change of estimates between provision and the filing of tax returns in foreign jurisdictions. The Company recorded $69 million of net tax expense during the six months ended June 30, 2018, resulting in an effective tax rate of 19%, compared to $114 million of net tax expense during the six months ended July 1, 2017, resulting in an effective tax rate of 35%. The effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2018 of 19% is lower than the effective tax rate for the six months ended July 1, 2017 of 35%, primarily due to the corporate income tax rate decrease from 35% to 21%, as a result of the Tax Act. The effective tax rate for six months ended June 30, 2018 was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on share-based compensation and a tax benefit due to a favorable settlement of a state audit. The effective tax rate for the six months ended July 1, 2017 was equal to the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%. Under the guidance in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 that addresses the FASB's ASC Topic 740, "Income Taxes," the Company recorded provisional amounts for the impact of the Tax Act in 2017. The Company is continuing to analyze the impact of the recently issued IRS Notices related to the Tax Act. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company has not recorded any material adjustments to the previously recorded provisional tax amounts.7. Share-based compensation expense will generally be recognized over the vesting period of three years.9. Fair Value MeasurementsThe Company holds or has held certain fixed income securities, equity securities and derivatives, which are recognized and disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants as of the measurement date. Fair value is measured using the fair value hierarchy and related valuation methodologies as defined in the authoritative literature. This guidance specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether the inputs to each measurement are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company's assumptions about current market conditions. All other financial instruments are carried at cost, which is not materially different from the instruments’ fair values.10. Long-term Financing and Sales of ReceivablesLong-term FinancingLong-term receivables consist of receivables with payment terms greater than twelve months, long-term loans and lease receivables under sales-type leases. The Company had outstanding commitments to provide long-term financing to third parties totaling $128 million at June 30, 2018, compared to $93 million at December 31, 2017. Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables. Commitments and ContingenciesLegal MattersThe Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.Other IndemnificationsThe Company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it is obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. In indemnification cases, payment by the Company is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow the Company to challenge the other party's claims. In some instances, the Company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the Company.Some of these obligations arise as a result of divestitures of the Company's assets or businesses and require the Company to indemnify the other party against losses arising from breaches of representations and warranties and covenants and, in some cases, the settlement of pending obligations. The Company's obligations under divestiture agreements for indemnification based on breaches of representations and warranties are generally limited in terms of duration and to amounts not in excess of a percentage of the contract value. The Company had no accruals for any such obligations at June 30, 2018.In addition, the Company may provide indemnifications for losses that result from the breach of general warranties contained in certain commercial and intellectual property agreements. Historically, the Company has not made significant payments under these agreements.2512. Services includes a continuum of service offerings beginning with repair, technical support and maintenance. More advanced offerings include monitoring, software updates and cybersecurity services. Managed services offerings range from partial to full operation of customer or Motorola Solutions owned networks. Reorganization of Business2018 ChargesDuring the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $25 million including $18 million of charges in Other charges and $7 million of charges in Cost of sales in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. Included in the $25 million were charges of $27 million related to employee separation costs and $1 million related to exit costs, partially offset by $3 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $38 million including $26 million of charges in Other charges and $12 million of charges in Cost of sales in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, there were $3 million of additional charges and $3 million of cash payments related to the exit of leased facilities. The remaining accrual of $9 million, which is included in Accrued liabilities in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets at June 30, 2018, primarily represents future cash payments for lease obligations that are expected to be paid over a number of years.Employee Separation CostsAt January 1, 2018, the Company had an accrual of $41 million for employee separation costs. The 2018 additional charges of $49 million represent severance costs for approximately 600 employees. The adjustment of $14 million reflects reversals for accruals no longer needed. The $33 million used reflects cash payments to severed employees. The remaining accrual of $43 million, which is included in Accrued liabilities in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets at June 30, 2018, is expected to be paid, primarily within one year, to approximately 600 employees, who have either been severed or have been notified of their severance and have begun or will begin receiving payments.2017 ChargesDuring the three months ended July 1, 2017, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $3 million including $1 million of charges in Other charges and $2 million of charges in Cost of sales in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. Included in the $3 million were charges of $8 million related to employee separation costs, partially offset by $5 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.During the six months ended July 1, 2017, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $22 million including $16 million of charges in Other charges and $6 million of charges in Cost of sales in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. Intangible Assets and GoodwillThe Company accounts for acquisitions using purchase accounting with the results of operations for each acquiree included in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements for the period subsequent to the date of acquisition.Avigilon Corporation On March 28, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation, a provider of advanced end-to-end security and surveillance solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, surveillance cameras and access control solutions. The purchase price of $974 million, consisted of cash payments of $980 million for outstanding common stock, restricted stock units and employee held stock options, net of cash acquired of $107 million, debt assumed of $75 million and transaction costs of $26 million. Prior to the end of the first quarter, $35 million of the assumed debt was repaid with the remaining $40 million repaid during the second quarter of 2018. The acquisition of Avigilon has been accounted for at fair value as of the acquisition date, based on the fair value of the total consideration transferred which has been attributed to all identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed and measured at fair value. The purchase accounting is not yet complete and as such the final allocation between deferred income tax accounts and goodwill may be subject to change. The fair values of all intangible assets were estimated using the income approach. Customer relationships and developed technology were valued under the excess earnings method which assumes that the value of an intangible asset is equal to the present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows attributable specifically to the intangible asset. Trade names were valued under the relief from royalty method, which assumes value to the extent that the acquired company is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from the other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.The pro forma effect of this acquisition is not significant.Other AcquisitionsOn April 9, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of a provider of two-way radio communications for a gross purchase price of $11 million, recognizing $7 million of identifiable intangible assets, which will be amortized over a period of seven years. The results of operations for this acquisition have been included in the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the acquisition date. On March 7, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million net cash. This acquisition will expand the Company's software portfolio in the Command Center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1. The Company recognized $155 million of goodwill, $80 million of identifiable intangible assets and $2 million of net assets acquired. The identifiable intangible assets were classified as $41 million of customer-related intangibles, $27 million of completed technology and $12 million of trade names. The identifiable intangible assets will be amortized over a period of 10 to 20 years. As a result of the acquisition, the Company recognized $191 million of goodwill, $44 million of identifiable intangible assets and $10 million of acquired liabilities. The identifiable intangible assets were classified as $25 million of customer-related intangibles and $19 million of completed technology and will be amortized over a period of 13 to 16 years. 28On March 13, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of Interexport, a company that provides Services for communications systems to public safety and commercial customers in Chile, for a gross purchase price of $98 billion Chilean pesos, or approximately $147 million U.S. dollars based on cash payments of $55 million, net of cash acquired, and assumed liabilities of $92 million, primarily related to capital leases. As a result of the acquisition, the Company recognized $61 million of identifiable intangible assets, $70 million of acquired property, plant and equipment and $16 million of net other tangible assets. The estimated identifiable intangible assets were classified as $56 million of customer-related intangibles and $5 million of other intangibles and will be amortized over a period of seven years. Amortization expense on intangible assets was $37 million for the three months ended July 1, 2017 and $73 million for the six months ended July 1, 2017. The changes in reporting structure consist of Systems Integration related revenue and costs moving from the old Services segment into the newly presented Products and Systems Integration segment and Software related revenue and costs moving from the old Products segment into the newly presented Services and Software segment.29Item 2. The changes in reporting structure consist of Systems Integration related revenue and costs moving from the old Services segment into the newly presented Products and Systems Integration segment and Software related revenue and costs moving from the old Products segment into the newly presented Services and Software segment.Our BusinessWe are a leading global provider of mission-critical communication infrastructure, devices, accessories, software, and services. Our products and services help government, public safety and commercial customers improve their operations through increased effectiveness, efficiency, and safety of their mobile workforces. The primary customers of the Products and Systems Integration segment are government, public safety and first-responder agencies, municipalities, and commercial and industrial customers who operate private communications networks and video solutions and manage a mobile workforce. Services includes a continuum of service offerings beginning with repair, technical support and maintenance. More advanced offerings include monitoring, software updates and cybersecurity services. Managed services offerings range from partial to full operation of customer or Motorola Solutions owned networks. Software includes public safety and enterprise command center solutions, unified communications applications, and video software solutions, delivered both on premise and “as a service.” In the second quarter of 2018, the segment’s net sales were $571 million, representing 32% of our consolidated net sales.30Second Quarter Summary•Net sales were $1.8 billion in the second quarter of 2018, up $263 million, or 18%, from the second quarter of 2017. •We generated operating earnings of $273 million, or 16% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2018, compared to $261 million, or 17% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2017.•We had net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $180 million, or $1.05 per diluted common share, in the second quarter of 2018, compared to $131 million, or $0.78 per diluted common share, in the second quarter of 2017. •We used net cash for operating activities of $75 million during the first half of 2018, primarily driven by the $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan, compared to $315 million of cash provided by operating activities in the first half of 2017. On a geographic basis, net sales increased in every region, compared to the year-ago quarter. Historically, we have experienced higher revenues in the fourth quarter as compared to the rest of the quarters of our fiscal year as a result of the purchasing patterns of our customers.Net SalesNet sales were $1.8 billion in the second quarter of 2018, a $263 million, or 18%, increase compared to the second quarter of 2017, reflecting solid demand across the globe for our products and services. The net sales increase for the second quarter of 2018 included $154 million from acquisitions, $26 million from favorable foreign currency rates and $24 million from the adoption of ASC 606. The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in every region. Devices net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP. Systems and Systems Integration net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in every region. The Services and Software segment net sales increased in every region. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by the acquisitions of Plant and Kodiak Networks within the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by the acquisition of Kodiak Networks in the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. Gross Margin Gross margin was $822 million, or 46.7% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2018, compared to $690 million, or 46.1% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2017. The increase in gross margin percentage was primarily driven by improved margins in Services, the adoption of ASC 606, and a favorable mix. Other ChargesWe recorded net charges of $71 million in the second quarter of 2018, compared to net charges of $37 million in the second quarter of 2017. The net Other charges in the second quarter of 2018 were driven by $53 million of charges relating to the amortization of intangibles and $18 million of net reorganization of business charges. The net charges in the second quarter of 2017 of $37 million were primarily from $37 million of charges relating to the amortization of intangibles. The net reorganization of business charges are discussed in further detail in the Reorganization of Businesses section.Net Interest ExpenseNet interest expense was $58 million in the second quarter of 2018 and $51 million in the second quarter of 2017. The increase in net interest expense in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to the second quarter of 2017 was a result of increases in outstanding debt issued during the first quarter of 2018.OtherNet Other income was $13 million in the second quarter of 2018, compared to an expense of $4 million in the second quarter of 2017. The net other income in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily comprised of $20 million of net periodic postretirement benefit and a $11 million foreign currency gain, partially offset by a $19 million loss on derivative instruments. Our effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2018 was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to a favorable settlement of a state audit, resulting in a tax benefit. Our effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2017 was greater than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% partly due to change of estimates between provision and the filing of tax returns in foreign jurisdictions. Results of Operations—Six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to six months ended July 1, 2017 Net SalesNet sales were $3.2 billion in the first half of 2018, a $450 million, or 16%, increase compared to the first half of 2017. The net sales increase for the first half of 2018 included $201 million from acquisitions, $65 million from favorable foreign currency rates and $39 million from the adoption of ASC 606.The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in every region. Within the Products and Systems Integration segment, Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP and Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in every region. The Services and Software segment increased in every region. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by the acquisitions of Plant and Kodiak Networks within the Software business, the acquisition of Interexport in Services and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by the acquisition of Kodiak Networks in the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and the Software business.Gross Margin Gross margin was $1.5 billion, or 46.2% of net sales, in the first half of 2018, compared to $1.3 billion, or 45.4% of net sales, in the first half of 2017. The net reorganization of business charges are discussed in further detail in the Reorganization of Businesses section.Net Interest ExpenseNet interest expense was $104 million in the first half of 2018 and $102 million in the first half of 2017. The net gains in the first half of 2018 and 2017 were primarily related to the sales of various equity investments. OtherNet Other income was $16 million in the first half of 2018, compared to expense of $9 million in the first half of 2017. The net Other income in the first half of 2018 was primarily comprised of $40 million net periodic postretirement benefit, partially offset by a $23 million loss on derivative investments, including losses of $14 million associated with foreign currency derivative contracts related to the acquisition of Avigilon. Our effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2018 of 19% is lower than our effective tax rate for the six months ended July 1, 2017 of 35%, primarily due to the corporate income tax rate decrease from 35% to 21%, as a result of the Tax Act. Our effective tax rate in the first half of 2018 was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on share-based compensation and a tax benefit due to a favorable settlement of a state audit. The increase in net earnings per diluted share was driven by an increase in net earnings.Segment InformationThe following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each reporting segment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, as detailed in Note 12, “Segment Information,” of our condensed consolidated financial statements.Products and Systems Integration SegmentFor the second quarter of 2018, the segment’s net sales represented 68% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 70% of our consolidated net sales for the second quarter of 2017. For the first half of 2018, the segment's net sales represented 66% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 68% of our consolidated net sales for the first half of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by an increase in Devices and Systems and Systems Integration sales. Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions and decreased in AP. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in the Americas due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in EMEA and AP due to the acquisition of Avigilon. Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 74% of the segment’s net sales in the second quarter of 2018, compared to 72% of the segment's net sales in the second quarter of 2017. The segment had operating earnings of $175 million in the second quarter of 2018, compared to $190 million in the second quarter of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by an increase in Devices and Systems and Systems Integration sales. Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions and decreased in AP. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in the Americas due to the acquisition of Avigilon. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in EMEA and AP due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions. 35Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 74% of the segment’s net sales in the first half of 2018, compared to 73% of the segment's net sales in the first half of 2017. The segment had operating earnings of $265 million in the first half of 2018, compared to $287 million in the first half of 2017. For the first half of 2018, the segment's net sales represented 34% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 32% of our consolidated net sales for the first half of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by the Plant and Kodiak Networks acquisitions within the Software business, as well as growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. On a geographic basis, net sales for the second quarter of 2018 increased in every region, compared to the second quarter of 2017. Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 58% of the segment’s net sales in the second quarter of 2018, compared to 55% of the segment’s net sales in the second quarter of 2017.The segment had operating earnings of $98 million in the second quarter of 2018, compared to $71 million in the second quarter of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by the Plant and Kodiak Networks acquisitions within the Software business and the Interexport acquisition within Services, as well as growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. On a geographic basis, net sales for the first half of 2018 increased in every region, compared to the first half of 2017. Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 58% of the segment’s net sales in the first half of 2018, compared to 54% of the segment’s net sales in the first half of 2017.The segment had operating earnings of $180 million in the first half of 2018, compared to $146 million in the first half of 2017. Included in the $25 million were charges of $27 million related to employee separation costs and $1 million related to exit costs, partially offset by $3 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.During the first half of 2018, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $38 million including $26 million of charges recorded within Other charges and $12 million in Cost of sales in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Included in the $38 million were charges of $49 million related to employee separation costs and $3 million related to exit costs, partially offset by $14 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.36During the second quarter of 2017, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $3 million including $1 million of charges recorded within Other charges and $2 million in Cost of sales in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Included in the $3 million were charges of $8 million related to employee separation costs, partially offset by $5 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.During the first half of 2017, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $22 million including $16 million of charges recorded within Other charges and $6 million in Cost of sales in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. The reorganization of business accruals at June 30, 2018 were $52 million, of which $43 million relate to employee separation costs that are expected to be paid within one year and $9 million of accruals related primarily to lease termination obligations that are expected to be paid over a number of years.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesWe decreased the aggregate of our cash and cash equivalent balances by $327 million from $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2017 to $941 million as of June 30, 2018. Restricted cash was $63 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Operating ActivitiesNet cash used for operating activities in the first half of 2018 was $75 million, as compared to $315 million provided by operating activities in the first half of 2017. Operating cash flows in the first half of 2018, as compared to the first half of 2017, were negatively impacted by the $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan, higher incentive payments, higher tax payments and the recovery of financial receivables owed to us in the first quarter of 2017. The contribution to our U.S. pension plan moves the next anticipated required contribution to 2024, or beyond.Investing ActivitiesNet cash used by investing activities was $1.2 billion in the first half of 2018, compared to $189 million in the first half of 2017. The $1.2 billion of cash used in the first half of 2018 included $1.2 billion used for acquisitions and investments and $82 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by $79 million of proceeds from sales of investments and businesses. The cash used during the first half of 2018 was primarily used for the acquisitions of Avigilon for a total of $903 million, net of cash acquired, and Plant for total of $237 million, net of cash acquired. The proceeds in the first half of 2018 primarily consisted of $60 million of excess cash withdrawn from company-sponsored life insurance investments. The decrease in capital expenditures was primarily related to lower information technology spend.37Financing ActivitiesNet cash provided by financing activities was $922 million in the first half of 2018, compared to $385 million used in the first half of 2017. Interest on the Term Loan is variable and indexed to LIBOR. Interest is payable monthly, subject to our discretion. The weighted average borrowing rate for amounts outstanding during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 was 3.35%. Net proceeds after issuance costs were $399 million. No additional borrowings are permitted and amounts borrowed and repaid or prepaid may not be re-borrowed. Also in conjunction with the acquisition of Avigilon in March 2018, we assumed $75 million of borrowings under Avigilon's revolving credit facility, of which $35 million was repaid during the first quarter of 2018 with the remaining $40 million paid during the second quarter of 2018, resulting in the closure of the facility.In February of 2018, we issued $500 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2028. After debt issuance costs and debt discounts, we recognized net proceeds of $497 million. These proceeds were then used to make a $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan in the first quarter of 2018.On August 25, 2015, we entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 2.00% Senior Convertible Notes which mature in September 2020. The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. The exercise price adjusts automatically for dividends. In the event of conversion, the notes may be settled in either cash or stock, at our discretion. We intend to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash.We have investment grade ratings on our senior unsecured long-term debt from the three largest U.S. national rating agencies. We continue to believe that we will be able to maintain sufficient access to the capital markets. During the first half of 2018, we paid $168 million in cash dividends to holders of our common stock. Subsequent to quarter end, we paid an additional $84 million in cash dividends to holders of our common stock. During the first quarter of 2018, $400 million was borrowed under this facility for the Avigilon acquisition, of which $100 million was repaid during the three months ended June 30, 2018. As of June 30, 2018, the outstanding loan amounted to $300 million. Subsequent to the quarter, we paid an additional $50 million. The 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments. The weighted average borrowing rate on outstanding amounts was 3.75%. An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line. The interest rate and facility fee are subject to adjustment if our credit rating changes. We must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement. We were in compliance with our financial covenants as of June 30, 2018. Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables. Contracts with these types of uncapped damage provisions are fairly rare, but individual contracts could still represent meaningful risk. In indemnification cases, payment by us is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow us to challenge the other party's claims. In some instances, we may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by us.Some of these obligations arise as a result of divestitures of our assets or businesses and require us to indemnify the other party against losses arising from breaches of representations and warranties and covenants and, in some cases, the settlement of pending obligations. Our obligations under divestiture agreements for indemnification based on breaches of representations and warranties are generally limited in terms of duration, and for amounts for breaches of such representations and warranties in connection with prior divestitures not in excess of a percentage of the contract value. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. 2016-02, "Leases," which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. The ASU is effective for us on January 1, 2019 and interim periods within that reporting period, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt the ASU on January 1, 2019, utilizing the modified retrospective method upon adoption. We have begun to assess the impact of the ASU on our financial statements, including the package of available practical expedients, required disclosures, and changes to internal controls. Based on the preliminary work completed, we expect a material impact to our balance sheet through the recording of right-of-use assets and lease obligations that were not required to be recorded within the balance sheet under current accounting standards.In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. The ASU expands and refines hedge accounting for both financial and non-financial risk components, aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of hedging instruments and hedge items in the financial statements, and includes certain targeted improvements to ease the application of current guidance related to the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The guidance related to cash flow and net investment hedges existing at the date of adoption should be applied using the modified retrospective method by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The guidance related to presentation and disclosure should be applied prospectively. We are currently assessing the impact of this ASU, including transition elections and required elections, on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.Recently Adopted Accounting PronouncementsWe adopted ASU No. We recognized $30 million related to the cumulative effect of applying the ASU as an adjustment to our opening retained earnings balance. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under accounting standards in effect in those periods. This ASU eliminates the prior application of deferring the income tax effect of intra-entity asset transfers, other than inventory, until the transferred asset is sold to a third party or otherwise recovered through use. Under the ASU, we will recognize tax expense when intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory occur.We adopted ASU No. We have restated our comparative period results to reflect the application of the presentation guidance of the ASU. We recorded $20 million and $4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively, and $40 million and $1 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively.We adopted ASU No. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to our opening retained earnings. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods.We retained much of the same accounting treatment used to recognize revenue under ASC 606 as under accounting standards in effect in prior periods. Revenue on a significant portion of our System and Integration services contracts continues to be recognized under percentage of completion accounting, applying a cost-to-cost method. Services contracts continue to be recognized ratably over relevant contract terms as we stand ready to perform. For contracts that are recognized under percentage of completion accounting, we considered the factors used to determine whether promises made in the contract are distinct and determined that devices and accessories represent distinct goods. Accordingly, adoption of the new standard impacts our system contracts, with the result being revenue recognized earlier as control of devices and accessories transfers to the customer at a point in time rather than over time. For the remaining promised goods and services within our system contracts, we continue to recognize revenue on these contracts using a cost-to-cost method based on the continuous transfer of control to the customer over time. Under the new standard, revenue recognition for software sales is accelerated based on when control of software licenses and related support services are transferred to the customer. Amounts deferred under previous software accounting rules due to a lack of vendor-specific objective evidence have been recognized as an adjustment through opening retained earnings.40 Historically, we presented transactions that involved a third-party sales representative on a net basis. After considering the control concept and the remaining three indicators of gross presentation under the new standard, we have determined that we are the principal in contracts that involve a third-party sales representative. Thus, we present associated revenues on a gross basis, with the affect being an equal increase to selling, general and administrative expenses for our cost of third-party commissions.Under prior accounting standards, we expensed sales commissions and other costs to obtain a contract as incurred. However, under the new standard, we capitalize sales commissions and certain other costs as incremental costs to obtain a contract. Such costs are classified as a non-current contract cost assets within Other assets and amortized over a period that approximates the timing of revenue recognition on the underlying contracts.The new standard clarified the definition of a receivable and requires us to present our net position in a contract with a customer on the balance sheet. The position is presented as either a receivable, contract asset, or a contract liability. Under the new definition, accounts receivable are unconditional rights to consideration from a customer. Contract assets represent rights to consideration from a customer in exchange for transferred goods and services that are conditional on events other than the passage of time. Contract liabilities represent obligations to transfer goods and services for which we have received, or is due, consideration from a customer respectively. We reclassified our customer positions to align with the new definitions and presentation guidance. Accordingly, Unbilled accounts receivable and Costs and earnings in excess of billings have been reclassified from Accounts receivable and Other current assets, respectively, and are presented as Contract assets. Accounts receivable which are not due from customers have been reclassified into Other current assets. Deferred revenue, Billings in excess of costs and earnings, and Customer downpayments have been reclassified from Accrued liabilities and are presented as Contract liabilities. Non-current deferred revenue has been reclassified from Deferred revenue to Non-current contract liabilities within Other liabilities.41Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskDerivative Financial InstrumentsAs of June 30, 2018, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $681 million, compared to $507 million outstanding as of December 31, 2017. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “aims,” “estimates” and similar expressions. We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this Form 10-Q. We wish to caution the reader that the risk factors discussed in each of these documents and those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements.42Item 4. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted the new revenue standard ASC 606. We have implemented new accounting processes related to revenue recognition and related disclosures, including related control activities. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.We are in the process of a multi-year phased upgrade and consolidation of our ERP systems into a single global platform across our businesses. In April 2017, we implemented our new ERP system which is functioning as designed and continuing to support our business. Our new ERP system includes the replacement of regional systems supporting our product based business and back end finance processes including our general ledger. The system also includes the replacement of our current indirect procurement and service contract systems. We have made appropriate changes to our internal controls over financial reporting as we have implemented the new system. We plan to continue to migrate the remaining parts of the business off regional systems as we work towards a single global platform. We will continue to modify our internal controls in response to changes in the underlying ERP on future phases as needed.43Part II—Other InformationItem 1. Legal ProceedingsThe Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe are subject to laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and information security, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such legal obligations could adversely affect our business. The GDPR strengthens individual privacy rights and enhances data protection obligations for processors and controllers of personal data. This includes expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information and mandatory data breach notification requirements. Non-compliance with the GDPR can trigger fines of up to €20 million or 4% of total worldwide annual revenue, whichever is greater. Also, U.S. federal, state and other foreign governments and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, storage, use, processing and disclosure personal data. These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere.44Item 2. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had used approximately $12.4 billion, including transaction costs, to repurchase shares, leaving $1.6 billion of authority available for future repurchases.Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.None.Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.None.Item 5. Other Information.None.45Item 6. ExhibitsExhibit No. Brown pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Brown pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. ©2018 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.46SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. Brown pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Brown pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.