Employer Identification No. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer” “accelerated filer” “smaller reporting company” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full year. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. This acquisition expands our software portfolio in the Command Center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1. 2016-02, "Leases," which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. The ASU is effective for the Company on January 1, 2019 and interim periods within that reporting period, with early adoption permitted. The ASU prescribes the use of a modified retrospective method upon adoption, which requires all prior periods presented in the financial statements to be restated, with a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the earliest period presented. The Company has begun to assess the impact of the ASU on its financial statements and expects a material impact to its balance sheet through the recording of right-of-use assets and lease obligations that were not required to be recorded within the balance sheet under current accounting standards. The Company has also begun to catalog its existing lease contracts and identify changes needed to systems and processes.In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. The ASU expands and refines hedge accounting for both financial and non-financial risk components, aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of hedging instruments and hedge items in the financial statements, and includes certain targeted improvements to ease the application of current guidance related to the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The Company is currently assessing the impact of this ASU, including transition elections and required elections, on its consolidated financial statements.Recently Adopted Accounting PronouncementsThe Company adopted ASU No. The Company recognized $30 million related to the cumulative effect of applying the ASU as an adjustment to its opening retained earnings balance. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under accounting standards in effect in those periods. This ASU eliminates the prior application of deferring the income tax effect of intra-entity asset transfers, other than inventory, until the transferred asset is sold to a third party or otherwise recovered through use. Under the ASU, the Company will recognize tax expense when intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory occur. The Company adopted ASU No. The Company has restated its comparative period results to reflect the application of the presentation guidance of the ASU. The Company reclassified $20 million and $3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, respectively.The Company adopted ASU No. The Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to its opening retained earnings. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods. The Company has retained much of the same accounting treatment used to recognize revenue under ASC 606 as under accounting standards in effect in prior periods. Revenue on a significant portion of its System and Integration services contracts continues to be recognized under percentage of completion accounting, applying a cost-to-cost method. Finally, revenue on equipment sales continues to be recognized based on delivery terms as aligned with the transfer of control.Under the new standard, the Company identified distinct promises to transfer goods and services within its contracts. For system contracts that are recognized under percentage of completion accounting, the Company has considered the factors used to determine whether promises made in the contract are distinct and determined that devices and accessories represent distinct goods. Accordingly, adoption of the new standard impacts the Company's system contracts, with the result being revenue recognized earlier as control of devices and accessories transfers to the customer at a point in time rather than over time. For the remaining promised goods and services within the Company's system contracts, it continues to recognize revenue on these contracts using a cost-to-cost method based on the continuous transfer of control to the customer over time. Under the new standard, revenue recognition for software sales is accelerated based on when control of software licenses and related support services are transferred to the customer. Amounts deferred under previous software accounting rules due to lack of vendor-specific objective evidence have been recognized as an adjustment through opening retained earnings. Historically, the Company presented transactions that involved a third-party sales representative on a net basis. After considering the control concept and the remaining three indicators of gross presentation under the new standard, the Company has determined that it is the principal in contracts that involve a third-party sales representative. Thus, under the new standard, the Company presents associated revenues on a gross basis, with the affect being an equal increase to selling, general and administrative expenses for its cost of third-party commissions.Under prior accounting standards, the Company expensed sales commissions and other costs to obtain a contract as incurred. However, under the new standard, the Company capitalizes sales commissions and certain other costs as incremental costs to obtain a contract. Such costs are classified as a non-current contract cost assets within Other assets and amortized over a period that approximates the timing of revenue recognition on the underlying contracts.The new standard clarified the definition of a receivable and requires the Company to present its net position in a contract with a customer on the balance sheet. The position is presented as either a receivable, contract asset, or a contract liability. Under the new definition, accounts receivable are unconditional rights to consideration from a customer. Contract assets represent rights to consideration from a customer in exchange for transferred goods and services that are conditional on events other than the passage of time. Contract liabilities represent obligations to transfer goods and services for which the Company has received, or is due, consideration from a customer respectively. The Company reclassified its customer positions to align with the new definitions and presentation guidance. Accordingly, Unbilled accounts receivable and Costs and earnings in excess of billings have been reclassified from Accounts receivable and Other current assets, respectively, and are presented as Contract assets. Accounts receivable which are not due from customers have been reclassified into Other current assets. Deferred revenue, Billings in excess of costs and earnings, and Customer downpayments have been reclassified from Accrued liabilities and are presented as Contract liabilities. 92. Revenue from Contracts with CustomersThe Company adopted ASC 606 and all the related amendments on January 1, 2018, applying the modified retrospective method to all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption. The cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 for contracts that were open as of the date of adoption is recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption. All of the periods prior to the adoption of ASC 606 will continue to reflect the financial results recognized under the guidance of the previous revenue recognition standard. In accordance with ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenue to reflect the transfer of control of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for goods or services. Direct customers of the Products segment are typically government public safety and first-responder agencies, procuring at state, local, and federal levels as well as large commercial customers with secure mission critical needs. Indirect customers are defined as customers purchasing professional commercial radios and Avigilon video solutions, which are primarily sold through the Company's reseller partners to an end-customer base, composed of various industries where private communications networks and video solutions are used to secure operations and enable a mobile workforce. Contracts with the Company's customers are typically fixed fee, with consideration measured net of associated sales taxes, and, as it relates to our direct customers, funded through government appropriations. Radio network and command center solutions includes the aggregation of promises to the customer to provide the radio network core and central processing software, base stations, consoles, repeaters, and software applications and features. These individual promises are not distinct in the context of the contract, as the Company provides a significant service of integrating and customizing the goods and services promised, as described in Integration Services below. The radio network and command center solutions represent distinct performance obligations for which revenue is recognized over time, as the Company creates an asset with no alternative use and has an enforceable right to payment for work performed. The Company's revenue recognition over time is based on an input measure of costs incurred, which depicts the transfer of control to its customers under its contracts. System revenue is recognized over an average duration of approximately one to two years.Systems also includes Avigilon end-to-end security and surveillance solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, and access control solutions, which are capable of being distinct and distinct in the context of the contract. Avigilon security and surveillance video solutions are traditionally sold through reseller partners, with contracts negotiated under fixed pricing. Provisions for returns are determined on a portfolio basis using historical data. Revenue is recognized upon the transfer of control of the end-to-end video solution to the reseller partners, typically upon shipment. Devices also includes video surveillance cameras sold by Avigilon. Devices are considered capable of being distinct and distinct within the context of our contracts. Revenue is recognized upon the transfer of control of the devices to the customer at a point in time, typically consistent with delivery under the applicable shipping terms. Devices are sold by both the direct sales force and through reseller partners. Revenue is generally recognized upon transfer of devices to reseller partners, rather than the end-customer, except for limited consignment arrangements. Direct customers of the Services segment are typically government public safety and first-responder agencies and municipalities. Indirect customers are commercial customers who distribute broadband push-to-talk services to a final end customer base. Integration services are typically sold under a fixed price contract and bundled with other hardware or software offerings. The services can be sold in a contract as a distinct performance obligation. However, integration services typically are not distinct in the context of the contract as they represent a component of the system performance obligation subject to customization and integration services on hardware and software solutions. Revenue recognition on integration services is recognized over time based on input measures of costs incurred or units completed. Integration services are typically project implementations with an average duration of approximately one to two years. More advanced offerings include network monitoring, software maintenance and cyber security services. Managed service offerings range from partial or full operation of customer owned networks to operation of Motorola Solutions owned networks. Services are provided across all radio network technologies, Command Center Consoles and Smart Public Safety Solutions. While contracts with customers are typically fixed fee, certain managed services contracts may be subject to variable consideration related to the achievement of service level agreement performance measurements. The Company has not historically paid significant penalties under service level agreements, and accordingly it does not constrain its contract price. Certain contracts may also contain variable consideration driven by number of users. Significant Judgments The Company enters into arrangements which consist of multiple promises to our customers. The Company evaluates whether the promised goods and services are distinct or a series of distinct goods or services. The Company accounts for certain system contracts on an over time basis, electing an input method of estimated costs as a measure of performance completed. The selection of the measurement of progress using estimated costs was based on a thorough consideration of alternatives of various output and input measures, including contract milestones and labor hours. However, the Company has determined that other input and output measures are not an appropriate measure of progress as they do not accurately align with the transfer of control on its customized product solutions. Total Estimated Costs at Completion include direct labor, material and subcontracting costs. Due to the nature of the efforts required to be performed to meet the underlying performance obligation, determining Estimated Costs at Completion may be complex and subject to many variables. We have a standard and disciplined quarterly process in which management reviews the progress and performance of open contracts in order to determine the best estimate of Estimated Costs at Completion. As part of this process, management reviews information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion, the project schedule, identified risks and opportunities, and the related changes in estimates of costs. The risks and opportunities include management’s judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the project schedule, technical requirements, and other contract requirements. Management must make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of work to be performed, the availability and cost of materials, and performance by subcontractors, among other variables. Based on this analysis, any quarterly adjustment to net sales, cost of sales, and the related impact to operating income are recorded as necessary in the period they become known. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed estimates of total revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined.12Remaining Performance Obligations Remaining performance obligations represent the revenue that is expected to be recognized in future periods related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied, or partially unsatisfied, as of the end of a period. The transaction price associated with remaining performance obligations which are not yet satisfied as of March 31, 2018 is $6.5 billion. A total of $1.7 billion is from Product performance obligations that are not yet satisfied, of which $1.0 billion is expected to be recognized in the next 12 months. The remaining amounts will generally be satisfied over time as systems are implemented. A total of $4.8 billion is from Services performance obligations that are not yet satisfied as of March 31, 2018. The determination of Services performance obligations that are not satisfied takes into account a contract term that may be limited by the customer’s ability to terminate for convenience. The Company expects to recognize $1.7 billion from unsatisfied Services performance obligations over the next 12 months, with the remaining performance obligations to be recognized over time as services are performed. Contract liabilities consist of amounts formerly classified Billings in excess of revenue recognized, Customer downpayments and Deferred revenue.Payment terms on system contracts are typically tied to implementation milestones associated with progress on contracts, while revenue recognition is over-time based on a cost-to-cost method of measuring performance. The Company may recognize a contract asset or contract liability, depending on whether revenue has been recognized in excess of billings or billings in excess of revenue. The Company does not record a financing component to contracts when it expects, at contract inception, that the period between the transfer of a promised good or service and related payment terms are less than a year, applying practical expedients available under the accounting standards. Revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 which was previously included in Contract liabilities as of January 1, 2018 is $297 million. Revenue of $9 million was recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to performance obligations satisfied, or partially satisfied, in previous periods, primarily driven by changes in the estimates of progress on system contracts. Contract cost assets are amortized into expense over a period that follows the passage of control to the customer over time. Incremental costs to obtain a contract with the Company's sales incentive plans are accounted for under a portfolio approach, with amortization ranging from one to four years to approximate the recognition of revenues over time. Where incremental costs to obtain a contract will be recognized in one year or less, the Company applies a practical expedient around expensing amounts as incurred. Amortization of contract cost assets was $12 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.133. During the three months ended April 1, 2017, the Company recognized a net gain of $42 million related to the recovery, through legal procedures to seize and liquidate assets, of financial receivables owed to the Company by a former customer of its legacy Networks business. For the three months ended April 1, 2017, the assumed exercise of 2.7 million options, including 2.3 million subject to market-based contingent stock agreements, were excluded because their inclusion would have been antidilutive. The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. In the event of conversion, the Company intends to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash. The conversion price is adjusted for dividends declared through the date of settlement. Diluted earnings per share has been calculated based upon the amount by which the average stock price exceeds the conversion price. Strategic investments do not have readily determinable fair values and are recorded at cost less impairments and adjusted for observable fair value movements. The Company did not recognize any impairments or adjustments to fair value during the three months ended March 31, 2018. Company owned life insurance policies were recorded at their cash surrender value of $95 million and $141 million, at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company withdrew $60 million of excess cash from its company-sponsored life insurance investments. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had unrealized gains of $8 million related to available-for-sale securities, which were realized upon the sale of the investment in the first quarter of 2018. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, Gains on the sale of investments and businesses were $11 million, compared to gains of $3 million during the three months ended April 1, 2017. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date.During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company paid an aggregate of $66 million, including transaction costs, to repurchase approximately 0.6 million shares at an average price of $101.54 per share. The 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments. The weighted average borrowing rate on outstanding amounts was 3.25%. An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line. The interest rate and facility fee are subject to adjustment if the Company's credit rating changes. The Company must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with its financial covenants as of March 31, 2018. Interest on the Term Loan is variable and indexed to LIBOR. Interest is payable quarterly. The weighted average borrowing rate for amounts outstanding during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was 3.54%. Net proceeds after issuance costs were $399 million. No additional borrowings are permitted and amounts borrowed and repaid or prepaid may not be re-borrowed.In February of 2018, the Company issued $500 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2028. The Company recognized net proceeds of $497 million after debt issuance costs and debt discounts. These proceeds were then used to make a $500 million contribution to the Company's U.S. pension plan.On August 25, 2015, the Company entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 2.00% Senior Convertible Notes which mature in September 2020. The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. The exercise price adjusts automatically for dividends. The value by which the Senior Convertible Notes exceeded their principal amount if converted as of March 31, 2018 was $590 million. In the event of conversion, the Company intends to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash.5. Risk ManagementForeign Currency RiskAs of March 31, 2018, the Company had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $643 million, compared to $507 million outstanding at December 31, 2017. The forward contracts have been designated as a net investment hedge which is in place to partially hedge the Company's British pound foreign currency exposure on its net investment in Airwave Solutions Limited. The gains and losses on the Company's net investment in British pound-denominated foreign operations, driven by changes in foreign exchange rates, are economically offset by movements in the fair values of the forward contracts designated as net investment hedges. Any changes in fair value of the net investment hedges are reflected as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss. As of March 31, 2018, the fair value of the derivative contracts was a $7 million liability.Interest Rate RiskCertain of the Company's subsidiaries have variable interest loans denominated in the Euro and Chilean Peso. The Company has interest rate swap agreements in place which change the characteristics of interest rate payments from variable to maximum fixed-rate payments. The interest rate swaps are not designated as hedges. The fair value of the interest rate swaps was de minimus at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.20Counterparty RiskThe use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to counterparty credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties. However, the Company’s risk is limited to the fair value of the instruments when the derivative is in an asset position. The Company actively monitors its exposure to credit risk. As of March 31, 2018, all of the counterparties have investment grade credit ratings. Income TaxesAt the end of each interim reporting period, the Company makes an estimate of its annual effective income tax rate. Tax expense in interim periods is calculated at the estimated annual effective tax rate plus or minus the tax effects of items of income and expense that are discrete to the period. The estimate used in providing for income taxes on a year-to-date basis may change in subsequent interim periods. The effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2018 was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily driven by a tax benefit due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on share-based compensation. The effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2017 was equal to the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%. Under the guidance in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 that addresses the FASB's ASC Topic 740, "Income Taxes," the Company recorded provisional amounts for the impact of the Tax Act in 2017. The Company is continuing to analyze the impact of the recently issued IRS Notices. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company has not recorded any material adjustments to the previously recorded tax impact.7. Share-based compensation expense will generally be recognized over the vesting period of three years.9. Fair Value MeasurementsThe Company holds or has held certain fixed income securities, equity securities and derivatives, which are recognized and disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants as of the measurement date. Fair value is measured using the fair value hierarchy and related valuation methodologies as defined in the authoritative literature. This guidance specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether the inputs to each measurement are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company's assumptions about current market conditions. All other financial instruments are carried at cost, which is not materially different from the instruments’ fair values.10. Long-term Financing and Sales of ReceivablesLong-term FinancingLong-term receivables consist of receivables with payment terms greater than twelve months, long-term loans and lease receivables under sales-type leases. The Company had outstanding commitments to provide long-term financing to third parties totaling $74 million at March 31, 2018, compared to $93 million at December 31, 2017. Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables. Commitments and ContingenciesLegal MattersThe Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.Other IndemnificationsThe Company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it is obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. In indemnification cases, payment by the Company is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow the Company to challenge the other party's claims. In some instances, the Company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the Company.Some of these obligations arise as a result of divestitures of the Company's assets or businesses and require the Company to indemnify the other party against losses arising from breaches of representations and warranties and covenants and, in some cases, the settlement of pending obligations. The Company's obligations under divestiture agreements for indemnification based on breaches of representations and warranties are generally limited in terms of duration and to amounts not in excess of a percentage of the contract value. The Company had no accruals for any such obligations at March 31, 2018.In addition, the Company may provide indemnifications for losses that result from the breach of general warranties contained in certain commercial and intellectual property agreements. Historically, the Company has not made significant payments under these agreements.12. Devices includes two-way portable and vehicle-mounted radios, accessories, software features, and upgrades. Devices also includes video surveillance cameras sold by Avigilon. Systems includes the radio network core and central processing software, base stations, consoles, repeaters, and software applications and features. Systems also includes Avigilon advanced end-to-end security and surveillance solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, and access control solutions. Integration services includes implementation, optimization, and integration of networks, devices, software, and applications. 25More advanced offerings include network monitoring, software maintenance and cyber security services. Managed services offerings range from partial or full operation of customer owned networks to operation of Motorola Solutions owned networks. Reorganization of Business2018 ChargesDuring the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $13 million including $8 million of charges in Other charges and $5 million of charges in Cost of sales in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were $2 million of additional charges and $2 million of cash payments related to the exit of leased facilities. The remaining accrual of $9 million, which is included in Accrued liabilities in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2018, primarily represents future cash payments for lease obligations that are expected to be paid over a number of years.Employee Separation CostsAt January 1, 2018, the Company had an accrual of $41 million for employee separation costs. The 2018 additional charges of $22 million represent severance costs for approximately 300 employees. The adjustment of $11 million reflects reversals for accruals no longer needed. The $13 million used reflects cash payments to severed employees. The remaining accrual of $39 million, which is included in Accrued liabilities in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2018, is expected to be paid, primarily within one year, to approximately 400 employees, who have either been severed or have been notified of their severance and have begun or will begin receiving payments.2017 ChargesDuring the three months ended April 1, 2017, the Company recorded net reorganization of business charges of $19 million including $15 million of charges in Other charges and $4 million of charges in Cost of sales in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. Intangible Assets and GoodwillThe Company accounts for acquisitions using purchase accounting with the results of operations for each acquiree included in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements for the period subsequent to the date of acquisition.Avigilon Corporation On March 28, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation, a provider of advanced end-to-end security and surveillance solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, surveillance cameras and access control solutions. The purchase price of $974 million, consisted of cash payments of $980 million for outstanding common stock, restricted stock units and employee held stock options, net of cash acquired of $107 million, debt assumed of $75 million and transaction costs of $26 million. Prior to the end of the first quarter, $35 million of the assumed debt was repaid and subsequent to the quarter, the remaining $40 million was repaid.The acquisition of Avigilon has been accounted for at fair value as of the acquisition date, based on the fair value of the total consideration transferred which has been attributed to all identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed and measured at fair value. The valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition has not yet been finalized as of March 31, 2018. As a result, the Company recorded preliminary estimates for the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. The final allocation could differ materially from the preliminary allocation. The preliminary fair values of all intangible assets were estimated using the income approach. Customer relationships and developed technology were valued under the excess earnings method which assumes that the value of an intangible asset is equal to the present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows attributable specifically to the intangible asset. Trade names were valued under the relief from royalty method, which assumes value to the extent that the acquired company is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from the other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.The pro forma effect of this acquisition is not significant.Other AcquisitionsOn March 7, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million net cash. This acquisition will expand the Company's software portfolio in the Command Center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1. The Company recognized $157 million of goodwill, $77 million of identifiable intangible assets and $3 million of net assets acquired. The identifiable intangible assets were classified as $40 million of customer-related intangibles, $26 million of completed technology and $11 million of trade names. The identifiable intangible assets will be amortized over a period of 10 to 20 years. As a result of the acquisition, the Company recognized $191 million of goodwill, $44 million of identifiable intangible assets and $10 million of acquired liabilities. The identifiable intangible assets were classified as $25 million of customer-related intangibles and $19 million of completed technology and will be amortized over a period of 13 to 16 years. As a result of the acquisition, the Company recognized $61 million of identifiable intangible assets, $70 million of acquired property, plant and equipment and $16 million of net other tangible assets. The estimated identifiable intangible assets were classified as $56 million of customer-related intangibles and $5 million of other intangibles and will be amortized over a period of seven years. This acquisition expands our software portfolio in the Command Center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1. We adopted ASU No. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to our opening retained earnings. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods. The impact from adoption increased Net sales by $15 million.Our BusinessWe are a leading global provider of mission-critical communication infrastructure, devices, accessories, software, and services. Our products and services help government, public safety and commercial customers improve their operations through increased effectiveness, efficiency, and safety of their mobile workforces. Devices includes two-way portable and vehicle mounted radios, accessories, and software features and upgrades. Devices also includes video surveillance cameras sold by Avigilon. Systems includes the radio network core and central processing software, base stations, consoles, repeaters, and software applications and features. Systems also includes Avigilon advanced end-to-end security and surveillance solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, and access control solutions. The primary customers of the Products segment are government, public safety and first-responder agencies, municipalities, and commercial and industrial customers who operate private communications networks and manage a mobile workforce. Integration services includes the implementation, optimization, and integration of systems, devices, software, and applications. More advanced offerings include network monitoring, software maintenance, and cyber security services. Managed service offerings range from partial or full operation of customer owned networks to operation of Motorola Solutions owned networks. Services are provided across all radio network technologies, Command Center Consoles, and Smart Public Safety Solutions. In the first quarter of 2018, the segment’s net sales were $667 million, representing 45% of our consolidated net sales.30First Quarter Summary•Net sales were $1.5 billion in the first quarter of 2018, up $187 million, or 15%, from the first quarter of 2017. •We generated operating earnings of $171 million, or 12% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2018, compared to $173 million, or 14% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2017.•We had net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $117 million, or $0.69 per diluted common share, in the first quarter of 2018, compared to $77 million, or $0.45 per diluted common share, in the first quarter of 2017. •We used net cash for operating activities of $500 million during the first quarter of 2018, primarily driven by the $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan, compared to $142 million of net cash generated in the first quarter of 2017. On a geographic basis, net sales increased in every region, compared to the year-ago quarter. Historically, we have experienced higher revenues in the fourth quarter as compared to the rest of the quarters of our fiscal year as a result of the purchasing patterns of our customers.Net SalesNet sales were $1.5 billion in the first quarter of 2018, a $187 million, or 15%, increase compared to the first quarter of 2017, reflecting solid demand across the globe for our products and services. The net sales increase for the first quarter of 2018 included $49 million from acquisitions, $39 million from favorable foreign currency rates and $15 million from the adoption of ASC 606. The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in every region. Devices net sales within the Products segment increased in the Americas and EMEA. Systems net sales within the Products segment increased in EMEA and AP. The Services segment net sales increased in every region. Gross Margin Gross margin was $669 million, or 45.6% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2018, compared to $570 million, or 44.5% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2017. The increase in gross margin percentage was primarily driven by a favorable mix in the Products segment. Other ChargesWe recorded net charges of $67 million in the first quarter of 2018, compared to net charges of $18 million in the first quarter of 2017. The net reorganization of business charges are discussed in further detail in the Reorganization of Businesses section.Net Interest ExpenseNet interest expense was $46 million in the first quarter of 2018 and $51 million in the first quarter of 2017. The net gains in the first quarter of 2018 and 2017 were related to sales of various equity investments.OtherNet Other income was $4 million in the first quarter of 2018, compared to an expense of $5 million in the first quarter of 2017. Our effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2018 was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily driven by a tax benefit due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on share-based compensation. Our effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2017 was equal to the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%. Segment InformationThe following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each reporting segment for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, as detailed in Note 12, “Segment Information,” of our condensed consolidated financial statements.Products SegmentFor both the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, the segment’s net sales represented 55% of our consolidated net sales. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by an increase in both Systems and Devices sales. Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA. Systems net sales increased in EMEA and AP. Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 76% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2018, compared to 75% of the segment's net sales in the first quarter of 2017. The segment had operating earnings of $89 million in the first quarter of 2018, compared to $88 million in the first quarter of 2017. On a geographic basis, net sales for the first quarter of 2018 increased in every region, compared to the first quarter of 2017. Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 59% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2018, compared to 58% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2017.The segment had operating earnings of $82 million in the first quarter of 2018, compared to $85 million in the first quarter of 2017. Included in the $13 million were charges of $22 million related to employee separation costs and $2 million related to exit costs, partially offset by $11 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed.During the first quarter of 2017, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $19 million including $15 million of charges recorded within Other charges and $4 million in Cost of sales in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. The reorganization of business accruals at March 31, 2018 were $48 million, of which $39 million relate to employee separation costs that are expected to be paid within one year and $9 million of accruals related primarily to lease termination obligations that are expected to be paid over a number of years.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesWe decreased the aggregate of our cash and cash equivalent balances by $410 million from $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2017 to $858 million as of March 31, 2018. Restricted cash was $63 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Operating ActivitiesNet cash used for operating activities in the first quarter of 2018 was $500 million, as compared to $142 million provided by operating activities in the first quarter of 2017. Operating cash flows in the first quarter of 2018, as compared to the first quarter of 2017, were negatively impacted by the $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan, higher incentive payments, higher tax payments and the recovery of financial receivables owed to us in the first quarter of 2017. The contribution to our U.S. pension plan moves the next anticipated required contribution to 2024, or beyond.35Investing ActivitiesNet cash used by investing activities was $1.1 billion in the first quarter of 2018, compared to $121 million in the first quarter of 2017. The cash used during the first quarter of 2018 was primarily used for the acquisitions of Avigilon for a total of $887 million, net of cash acquired, and Plant for total of $237 million, net of cash acquired. The proceeds in the first quarter of 2018 primarily consisted of $60 million of excess cash withdrawn from company-sponsored life insurance investments. The decrease in capital expenditures was primarily related to lower information technology spend.Financing ActivitiesNet cash provided by financing activities was $1.1 billion in the first quarter of 2018, compared to $234 million used in the first quarter of 2017. In the acquisition of Avigilon, we assumed $75 million of debt, which was entirely made up of borrowings under Avigilon's credit facility and is classified as current debt. Immediately following the transaction, in advance of March 31, 2018, we repaid approximately $35 million of the acquired debt. Interest on the Term Loan is variable and indexed to LIBOR. Interest is payable quarterly. The weighted average borrowing rate for amounts outstanding during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was 3.54%. Net proceeds after issuance costs were $399 million. No additional borrowings are permitted and amounts borrowed and repaid or prepaid may not be re-borrowed. In February of 2018, we issued $500 million of 4.60% Senior notes due 2028. After debt issuance costs and debt discounts, we recognized net proceeds of $497 million. These proceeds were then used to make a $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan.On August 25, 2015, we entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 2.00% Senior Convertible Notes which mature in September 2020. The notes became fully convertible as of August 25, 2017. The exercise price adjusts automatically for dividends. In the event of conversion, the notes may be settled in either cash or stock, at our discretion. We intend to settle the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes in cash.We have investment grade ratings on our senior unsecured long-term debt from the three largest U.S. national rating agencies. We continue to believe that we will be able to maintain sufficient access to the capital markets. Subsequent to quarter end, we paid an additional $84 million in cash dividends to holders of our common stock. The 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments. The weighted average borrowing rate on outstanding amounts was 3.25%. An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line. The interest rate and facility fee are subject to adjustment if our credit rating changes. We must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2017 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement. We were in compliance with our financial covenants as of March 31, 2018. Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables. Contracts with these types of uncapped damage provisions are fairly rare, but individual contracts could still represent meaningful risk. In indemnification cases, payment by us is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow us to challenge the other party's claims. In some instances, we may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by us.Some of these obligations arise as a result of divestitures of our assets or businesses and require us to indemnify the other party against losses arising from breaches of representations and warranties and covenants and, in some cases, the settlement of pending obligations. Our obligations under divestiture agreements for indemnification based on breaches of representations and warranties are generally limited in terms of duration, and for amounts for breaches of such representations and warranties in connection with prior divestitures not in excess of a percentage of the contract value. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. 2016-02, "Leases," which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements. The ASU is effective for us on January 1, 2019 and interim periods within that reporting period, with early adoption permitted. The ASU prescribes the use of a modified retrospective method upon adoption, which requires all prior periods presented in the financial statements to be restated, with a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the earliest period presented. We have begun to assess the impact of the ASU on our financial statements and expect a material impact to our balance sheet through the recording of right-of-use assets and lease obligations that were not required to be recorded within the balance sheet under current accounting standards. We have also begun to catalog our existing lease contracts and identify changes needed to systems and processes.In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. The ASU expands and refines hedge accounting for both financial and non-financial risk components, aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of hedging instruments and hedge items in the financial statements, and includes certain targeted improvements to ease the application of current guidance related to the assessment of hedge effectiveness. We are currently assessing the impact of this ASU, including transition elections and required elections, on our consolidated financial statements.Recently Adopted Accounting PronouncementsWe adopted ASU No. We recognized $30 million related to the cumulative effect of applying the ASU as an adjustment to our opening retained earnings balance. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under accounting standards in effect in those periods. This ASU eliminates the prior application of deferring the income tax effect of intra-entity asset transfers, other than inventory, until the transferred asset is sold to a third party or otherwise recovered through use. Under the ASU, we will recognize tax expense when intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory occur.We adopted ASU No. We have restated our comparative period results to reflect the application of the presentation guidance of the ASU. We reclassified $20 million and $3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, respectively.We adopted ASU No. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to our opening retained earnings. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods.We retained much of the same accounting treatment used to recognize revenue under ASC 606 as under accounting standards in effect in prior periods. Revenue on a significant portion of our System and Integration services contracts continues to be recognized under percentage of completion accounting, applying a cost-to-cost method. For contracts that are recognized under percentage of completion accounting, we considered the factors used to determine whether promises made in the contract are distinct and determined that devices and accessories represent distinct goods. Accordingly, adoption of the new standard impacts our system contracts, with the result being revenue recognized earlier as control of devices and accessories transfers to the customer at a point in time rather than over time. For the remaining promised goods and services within our system contracts, we continue to recognize revenue on these contracts using a cost-to-cost method based on the continuous transfer of control to the customer over time. Under the new standard, revenue recognition for software sales is accelerated based on when control of software licenses and related support services are transferred to the customer. Amounts deferred under previous software accounting rules due to a lack of vendor-specific objective evidence have been recognized as an adjustment through opening retained earnings. Historically, we presented transactions that involved a third-party sales representative on a net basis. After considering the control concept and the remaining three indicators of gross presentation under the new standard, we have determined that we are the principal in contracts that involve a third-party sales representative. Thus, we present associated revenues on a gross 38basis, with the affect being an equal increase to selling, general and administrative expenses for our cost of third-party commissions.Under prior accounting standards, we expensed sales commissions and other costs to obtain a contract as incurred. However, under the new standard, we capitalize sales commissions and certain other costs as incremental costs to obtain a contract. Such costs are classified as a non-current contract cost assets within Other assets and amortized over a period that approximates the timing of revenue recognition on the underlying contracts.The new standard clarified the definition of a receivable and requires us to present our net position in a contract with a customer on the balance sheet. The position is presented as either a receivable, contract asset, or a contract liability. Under the new definition, accounts receivable are unconditional rights to consideration from a customer. Contract assets represent rights to consideration from a customer in exchange for transferred goods and services that are conditional on events other than the passage of time. Contract liabilities represent obligations to transfer goods and services for which we have received, or is due, consideration from a customer respectively. We reclassified our customer positions to align with the new definitions and presentation guidance. Accordingly, Unbilled accounts receivable and Costs and earnings in excess of billings have been reclassified from Accounts receivable and Other current assets, respectively, and are presented as Contract assets. Accounts receivable which are not due from customers have been reclassified into Other current assets. Deferred revenue, Billings in excess of costs and earnings, and Customer downpayments have been reclassified from Accrued liabilities and are presented as Contract liabilities. Non-current deferred revenue has been reclassified from Deferred revenue to Non-current contract liabilities within Other liabilities.39Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskDerivative Financial InstrumentsAs of March 31, 2018, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $643 million, compared to $507 million outstanding as of December 31, 2017. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “aims,” “estimates” and similar expressions. We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements contained in this Form 10-Q. Risk Factors” on page 37 of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2017 and in our other SEC filings available for free on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on Motorola Solutions' website at www.motorolasolutions.com. We wish to caution the reader that the risk factors discussed in each of these documents and those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements.40Item 4. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted the new revenue standard ASC 606. We have implemented new accounting processes related to revenue recognition and related disclosures, including related control activities. There were no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.We are in the process of a multi-year phased upgrade and consolidation of our ERP systems into a single global platform across our businesses. In April 2017, we implemented our new ERP system which is functioning as designed and continuing to support our business. Our new ERP system includes the replacement of regional systems supporting our product based business and back end finance processes including our general ledger. The system also includes the replacement of our current indirect procurement and service contract systems. We have made appropriate changes to our internal controls over financial reporting as we have implemented the new system. We plan to continue to migrate the remaining parts of the business off regional systems as we work towards a single global platform. We will continue to modify our internal controls in response to changes in the underlying ERP on future phases as needed.41Part II—Other InformationItem 1. Legal ProceedingsThe Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.Item 1A. These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere.42Item 2. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had used approximately $12.4 billion, including transaction costs, to repurchase shares, leaving $1.6 billion of authority available for future repurchases.Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.None.Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.None.Item 5. Other Information.None.43Item 6. ExhibitsExhibit No. Restricted Stock Unit Agreement relating to the Motorola Solutions Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2015 for grants to Appointed Vice Presidents and Elected Officers on or after March 8, 2018. Restricted Stock Unit Agreement relating to the Motorola Solutions Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2015 for grants to Employees on or after March 8, 2018. Brown pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Brown pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. ©2018 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.44SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. Restricted Stock Unit Agreement relating to the Motorola Solutions Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2015 for grants to Appointed Vice Presidents and Elected Officers on or after March 8, 2018. Restricted Stock Unit Agreement relating to the Motorola Solutions Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2015 for grants to Employees on or after March 8, 2018. Brown pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Brown pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.