Yes T No ¨Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Yes o No xThe number of outstanding shares of the registrant's common stock as of December 12, 2018 was 1,121,046,809. Definitions of Commonly Used TermsAs used herein, "we," "our," "us," and similar terms include Micron Technology, Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Through our global brands - Micron®, Crucial®, and Ballistix® – our broad portfolio of high-performance memory and storage technologies, including DRAM, NAND, NOR Flash, and 3D XPoint memory, is transforming how the world uses information to enrich life. Backed by 40 years of technology leadership, our memory and storage solutions enable disruptive trends, including artificial intelligence, machine learning, and autonomous vehicles, in key market segments like cloud, data center, networking, mobile, and automotive.Micron, Crucial, Ballistix, any associated logos, and all other Micron trademarks are the property of Micron. Other product names or trademarks that are not owned by Micron are for identification purposes only and may be the registered or unregistered trademarks of their respective owners.Forward-Looking StatementsThis Form 10-Q contains trend information and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made regarding our expected NAND and 3D XPointTM development activities with Intel; our expectation to exercise our call option to purchase Intel's interest in IMFT and the amount we expect to pay for the transaction; our expectation, from time to time, to engage in additional financing transactions; the sufficiency of our cash and investments, cash flows from operations, and available financing to meet our requirements at least through the next 12 months; and capital spending in 2019. We are under no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from our historical results and those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in "Part II, Other Information – Item 1A. Risk Factors. "PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ITEM 1. See "Recently Adopted Accounting Standards" note. Prior year information is presented in accordance with the accounting guidance in effect during that period and has not been recast for recently adopted accounting standards. In the opinion of our management, the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements contain all necessary adjustments, consisting of a normal recurring nature, to fairly state the financial information set forth herein. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to current period presentation.Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31. Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 each contain 52 weeks. All period references are to our fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 30, 2018.Variable Interest EntitiesWe have interests in entities that are VIEs. If we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we are required to consolidate it. To determine if we are the primary beneficiary, we evaluate whether we have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Our evaluation includes identification of significant activities and an assessment of our ability to direct those activities based on governance provisions and arrangements to provide or receive product and process technology, product supply, operations services, equity funding, financing, and other applicable agreements and circumstances. We do not have an equity interest in PTI Xi'an. PTI Xi'an is a VIE because of the terms of its service agreement with us and its dependency on PTI to finance its operations. We have determined that we do not have the power to direct the activities of PTI Xi'an that most significantly impact its economic performance, primarily because we have no governance rights. Therefore, we do not consolidate PTI Xi'an. The primary activities of IMFT are driven by the constant introduction of product and process technology. Because we perform a significant majority of the technology development, we have the power to direct its key activities. We consolidate IMFT because we have the power to direct the activities of IMFT that most significantly impact its economic performance and because we have the obligation to absorb losses and the right to receive benefits from IMFT that could potentially be significant to it. At any time through December 2018, Intel can exercise its option to require us to purchase, and from January 2019 through December 2021, we can exercise our option to purchase from Intel, Intel's interest in IMFT. On October 18, 2018, we announced our intent to exercise our option to acquire Intel's interest in IMFT. Upon such exercise, Intel can elect to set the closing date of the transaction to be any time between six months and one year from the date we exercise our option. We adopted this ASU in the first quarter of 2019 under the modified retrospective method and, in connection therewith, made certain adjustments as noted in the table below.In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01 – Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, which provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities. We adopted this ASU in the first quarter of 2019 under the modified retrospective method, with prospective adoption for amendments related to equity securities without readily determinable fair values. The core principal of ASC 606 is that an entity should recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. ASC 606 also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. We adopted ASC 606 in the first quarter of 2019 under the modified retrospective method and, in connection therewith, made certain adjustments as noted in the table below.The following table summarizes the effects of adopting ASU 2016-16 and ASC 606. The margin from previously deferred sales to distributors was reclassified from other current liabilities to retained earnings. This ASU will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2021 with early adoption permitted. This ASU requires retrospective adoption to the date we adopted ASC 606, August 31, 2018, by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings of the earliest annual period presented. This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period. This ASU requires that credit losses of debt securities designated as available-for-sale be recorded through an allowance for credit losses and limits the credit loss to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost. This ASU will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2021 with adoption permitted as early as the first quarter of 2020. This ASU requires modified retrospective adoption, with prospective adoption for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date. We are evaluating the timing and effects of our adoption of this ASU on our financial statements.In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 – Leases, which amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of- use asset and corresponding liability, measured at the present value of lease payments. This ASU, as amended, will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2020 with early adoption permitted and allows for either a modified retrospective adoption or a retrospective adoption by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. The adoption of this ASU will result in an increase to our consolidated balance sheets for these right-of-use assets and corresponding liabilities. We perform supplemental analyses to validate information obtained from these pricing services. No adjustments were made to the fair values indicated by such pricing information as of November 29, 2018 or August 30, 2018. Additionally, the closing price of our common stock also exceeded the thresholds for our 2032D Notes and 2033F Notes for the calendar quarter ended December 31, 2018; therefore, such notes are convertible by the holders at any time through March 31, 2019. Convertible Senior NotesAs of November 29, 2018, the trading price of our common stock was higher than the initial conversion prices of our convertible notes and, as a result, the aggregate conversion value of $2.11 billion exceeded the aggregate principal amount of $1.23 billion by $877 million.Available Revolving Credit FacilityOn November 27, 2018, we increased the amount available to draw under our existing revolving credit facility expiring in July 2023 from $2.0 billion to $2.5 billion. As of November 29, 2018, there were no outstanding amounts drawn under this facility.13Debt ConversionsDuring the first quarter of 2019, we settled conversions of debt with an aggregate principal amount of $38 million. When we receive a notice of conversion for any of our convertible notes and elect to settle in cash any amount of the conversion obligation in excess of the principal amount, the cash settlement obligations become derivative debt liabilities subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment based on the volume-weighted-average price of our common stock over a period of 20 consecutive trading days. These notes will settle in the second quarter of 2019 in cash.ContingenciesWe have accrued a liability and charged operations for the estimated costs of adjudication or settlement of various asserted and unasserted claims existing as of the balance sheet date, including those described below. On March 27, 2015, Elm filed an amended complaint against the same entities. The complaint alleges that a variety of our NAND products infringe eight U.S. patents and seeks damages, attorneys' fees, and costs. On August 31, 2018, Micron was served with a complaint filed by IMS in Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court in Guangdong Province, China. The complaint alleges that certain of our NAND flash products infringe a Chinese patent. The complaint alleges that MXA and MSS infringe a Chinese patent by manufacturing and selling certain Crucial 14DDR4 DRAM modules. On April 3, 2018, MSS was served with the same complaint. The complaint alleges that MXA and MSS infringe a Chinese patent by manufacturing and selling certain Crucial DDR4 DRAM modules. The complaint seeks an order requiring MXA and MSS to destroy inventory of the accused products and equipment for manufacturing the accused products in China, to stop manufacturing, using, selling, and offering for sale the accused products in China, and to pay damages of 90 million Chinese yuan plus court fees incurred.On April 3, 2018, MSS was served with another patent infringement complaint filed by Jinhua and two additional complaints filed by UMC in the Fuzhou Court. The three additional complaints allege that MSS infringes three Chinese patents by manufacturing and selling certain Crucial MX300 SSDs and certain GDDR5 memory chips. The two complaints filed by UMC each seek an order requiring MSS to destroy inventory of the accused products and equipment for manufacturing the accused products in China, to stop manufacturing, using, selling, and offering for sale the accused products in China, and to pay damages of 90 million Chinese yuan plus court fees incurred. The complaint filed by Jinhua seeks an order requiring MSS to destroy inventory of the accused products and equipment for manufacturing the accused products in China, to stop manufacturing, using, selling, and offering for sale the accused products in China, and to pay damages of 98 million Chinese yuan plus court fees incurred. On October 9, 2018, UMC withdrew its complaint that alleged MSS infringed a Chinese patent by manufacturing and selling certain GDDR5 memory chips.On July 5, 2018, MXA and MSS were notified that the Fuzhou Court granted a preliminary injunction against those entities that enjoins them from manufacturing, selling, or importing certain Crucial and Ballistic-branded DRAM modules and solid-state drives in China. The affected products make up slightly more than 1% of our annualized revenues. We are complying with the ruling and have requested the Fuzhou Court to reconsider or stay its decision.Among other things, the above lawsuits pertain to substantially all of our DRAM, NAND, and other memory and storage products we manufacture, which account for a significant portion of our revenue.We are unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against us and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss. The interlocutory judgments have no immediate, enforceable effect on us, and, accordingly, we expect to be able to continue to operate with full control of the Inotera Shares subject to further developments in the case. We have filed a notice of appeal, and the parties have submitted briefs to the appeals court.We are unable to predict the outcome of the matter and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss. Similar cases were subsequently filed in federal court in the United States, as well as in Canadian courts in Quebec, Montreal and Toronto, Ontario. The complaints seek treble monetary damages, costs, interest, attorneys' fees, and other injunctive and equitable relief. We are unable to predict the outcome of these matters and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss. On May 31, 2018, SAMR made unannounced visits to our sales offices in Beijing, Shanghai, and Shenzhen to seek certain information as part of its investigation. We are cooperating with SAMR in its investigation.OtherOn December 5, 2017, Micron filed a complaint against UMC and Jinhua in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges that UMC and Jinhua violated the Defend Trade Secrets Act, the civil provisions of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, and California's Uniform Trade Secrets Act by misappropriating Micron's trade secrets and other misconduct. Micron's complaint seeks damages, restitution, disgorgement of profits, injunctive relief, and other appropriate relief.In the normal course of business, we are a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify the other party. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these types of agreements due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. The repurchase authorization does not obligate us to acquire any common stock.In the first quarter of 2019, we repurchased an aggregate of 42 million shares of our common stock for $1.80 billion under an accelerated share repurchase agreement, a Rule 10b5-1 plan, and through open market repurchases. IMFT is governed by a Board of Managers, for which the number of managers appointed by each member varies based on the members' respective ownership interests. IMFT manufactures semiconductor products exclusively for its members under a long-term supply agreement at prices approximating cost. In the first quarter of 2018, IMFT discontinued production of NAND and subsequent to that time has been entirely focused on 3D XPoint memory production. Through our IMFT joint venture, we continue to jointly develop 3D XPoint technologies with Intel through the second generation of 3D XPoint technology, which is expected to be completed in the second half of 2019. To better optimize the 3D XPoint technology for our product roadmap and maximize the benefits for our customers and shareholders, in the fourth quarter of 2018, we announced that we will no longer jointly develop with Intel subsequent generations of 3D XPoint technology. IMFT will continue to manufacture memory based on 3D XPoint technology at the fabrication facility in Lehi, Utah for its members. IMFT sales to Intel were $175 million and $112 million, in the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.The IMFT joint venture agreement extends through 2024 and includes certain buy-sell rights. At any time through December 2018, Intel can exercise its option to require us to purchase, and from January 2019 through December 2021, we can exercise our option to purchase from Intel, Intel's interest in IMFT, in either case, for a price that approximates Intel's interest in the net book value of IMFT plus member debt at the time of the closing. If Intel exercises its option, we can elect to set the closing date of the transaction any time between six months and two years following such election by Intel and we can elect to receive financing of the purchase price from Intel for one to two years from the closing date. On October 18, 2018, we announced our intent to exercise our option to acquire Intel's interest in IMFT. Upon such exercise, Intel can elect to set the closing date of the transaction to be any time between six months and one year from the date we exercise our option. Following the closing date resulting from exercise of either option, we will continue to supply to Intel for a period of up to one year, at a margin that varies depending on which option was exercised. For the first six months of such one-year period, Intel can receive supply ranging from 50% to 100%, at Intel's choice, of the volume supplied to Intel by IMFT in the six-month period immediately prior to the closing date. For the second six months of such one-year period, Intel can receive supply ranging from 0% to 100%, at Intel's choice, of the volume supplied to Intel by IMFT in the first six-month period. IMFT's capital requirements are generally determined based on an annual plan approved by the members, and capital contributions to IMFT are requested as needed. Capital requests are made to the members in proportion to their then-current ownership interest. Members may elect to not contribute their proportional share, and in such event, the contributing member may elect to contribute any amount of the capital request, either in the form of an equity contribution or member debt financing. Under the supply agreement, the members have rights and obligations to the capacity of IMFT in proportion to their investment, including member debt financing. Any capital contribution or member debt financing results in a proportionate adjustment to the sharing of output on an eight-month lag. Members pay their proportionate share of fixed costs associated with IMFT's capacity.17Creditors of IMFT have recourse only to IMFT's assets and do not have recourse to any other of our assets. dollars. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the realized and unrealized gains or losses on derivatives is included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income are reclassified into earnings in the same line items and in the same periods in which the underlying transactions affect earnings. As a result of adopting ASU 2017-12, beginning in the second quarter of 2018, the excluded portion of such amounts is included in the same line item in which the underlying transactions affect earnings and the ineffective portion of the realized and unrealized gains or losses on derivatives is included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.We recognized losses of $13 million and $4 million for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, in accumulated other comprehensive income from the effective portion of cash flow hedges. Neither the amount excluded from hedge effectiveness nor the reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings were material in the first 19quarters of 2019 or 2018. At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are remeasured into U.S. dollars and the associated outstanding forward contracts are marked to market. Income tax benefits related to share-based compensation for the first quarter of 2018 were offset by an increase in the U.S. valuation allowance. As of November 29, 2018, $498 million of total unrecognized compensation costs for unvested awards, before the effect of any future forfeitures, was expected to be recognized through the first quarter of 2023, resulting in a weighted-average period of 1.4 years.Revenue and Contract Liabilities Our revenues are primarily recognized at a point in time, when control of the promised goods is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods. Contracts with our customers are generally short-term in duration at fixed, negotiated prices with payment generally due shortly after delivery. We estimate a liability for returns using the expected value method based on historical rates of return. In addition, we generally offer price protection to our distributors, which is a form of variable consideration that decreases the transaction price. We estimate the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to from sales to distributors, using the expected value method, based on historical price adjustments and current pricing trends. Differences between the estimated and actual amounts are recognized as adjustments to revenue. Revenue and interest expense associated with contract liabilities for the time value of advance payments was not material in any period presented. Additions and other activity included new customer advances, payments received from license and other arrangements in advance of performance, and interest accrued for financing components on advance payments. Revenue recognized in the first quarter of 2019 included $112 million from shipments against customer advances and $5 million in revenue recognized upon meeting other performance obligations. Consideration Payable to CustomersAs of November 29, 2018, other current liabilities included $332 million for estimates of consideration payable to customers, including estimates for pricing adjustments and returns.Research and DevelopmentWe share the cost of certain product and process development activities with development partners. We continue to jointly develop NAND technologies with Intel through the third generation of 3D NAND, which is expected to be completed in the second half of 2019. In the second quarter of 2018, we and Intel agreed to independently develop subsequent generations of 3D NAND in order to better optimize the technology and products for our respective business needs. We continue to jointly develop 3D XPoint technologies with Intel through the second generation of 3D XPoint technology, which is expected to be completed in the second half of 2019. SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. During the first quarter of 2019, we finalized the computations of the income tax effects of the Tax Act. The amount accrued for interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions was not material for any period presented.We operate in a number of tax jurisdictions outside the United States, including Singapore, where we have tax incentive arrangements, which expire in whole or in part at various dates through 2031, that are conditional, in part, upon meeting certain business operations and employment thresholds. Other indirect operating income and expenses are generally allocated to segments based on their respective percentage of cost of goods sold or forecasted wafer production. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThis discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 30, 2018. All period references are to our fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31. Our fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contain 52 weeks. All production data includes the production of IMFT. All tabular dollar amounts are in millions, except per share amounts.OverviewMicron Technology, Inc., including its consolidated subsidiaries, is an industry leader in innovative memory and storage solutions. Through our global brands - Micron®, Crucial®, and Ballistix® – our broad portfolio of high-performance memory and storage technologies, including DRAM, NAND, NOR Flash, and 3D XPoint memory, is transforming how the world uses information to enrich life. Backed by 40 years of technology leadership, our memory and storage solutions enable disruptive trends, including artificial intelligence, machine learning, and autonomous vehicles, in key market segments like cloud, data center, networking, mobile, and automotive.We manufacture our products at our worldwide, wholly-owned and joint venture facilities. In recent years, we have increased our manufacturing scale and product diversity through strategic acquisitions, expansion, and various partnering arrangements.We make significant investments to develop proprietary product and process technology, which are implemented in our manufacturing facilities. We generally increase the density per wafer and reduce manufacturing costs of each generation of product through advancements in product and process technology, such as our leading-edge line-width process technology and 3D NAND architecture. Storage products incorporating NAND, a controller, and firmware constitute a significant and increasing portion of our revenues. We generally develop firmware and, in the first quarter of 2019, introduced proprietary controllers into our SSDs. Development of advanced technologies enables us to diversify our product portfolio toward a richer mix of differentiated, high-value solutions and to target high-growth markets.We market our products through our internal sales force, independent sales representatives, distributors, and e-tailers, primarily to original equipment manufacturers and retailers located around the world. We face intense competition in the semiconductor memory and storage markets and, in order to remain competitive, we must continuously develop and implement new products and technologies and decrease manufacturing costs. Sales of DRAM products for the first quarter of 2019 decreased 9% from the fourth quarter of 2018 reflecting decreases in average selling prices from challenging market conditions, particularly in enterprise and cloud server markets and graphics markets, partially offset by increases in sales of mobile products driven by continued execution in delivering new LPDRAM products. Sales of NAND products for the first quarter of 2019 decreased 3% from the fourth quarter of 2018 primarily due to declines in sales of SSD storage products as a result of pricing decreases, partially offset by higher shipment volumes of managed NAND products into mobile markets, which increased more than 50% due to our execution in delivering products featuring advanced 3D NAND technologies combined with strong customer acceptance. Sales volumes of NAND products for the first quarter of 2019 increased by a low to mid-teen percent as compared to the fourth quarter of 2018, which mitigated a similar decline in average selling prices.Total revenue for the first quarter of 2019 increased 16% as compared to the first quarter of 2018. Higher revenue in the first quarter of 2019 for both DRAM and NAND products as compared to the first quarter of 2018 was driven by strong execution in delivering high-value products featuring our 1Xnm DRAM and 64-layer TLC 3D NAND technologies combined with demand growth across our primary markets. Sales of DRAM products for the first quarter of 2019 increased 18% from the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to moderate increases in both sales volumes and average selling prices as a result of strong market growth, particularly for cloud, enterprise, mobile, and graphics markets, combined with increased sales into high-value markets. Sales of NAND products for the first quarter of 2019 increased 15% from the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to an approximate 70% increase in sales volumes driven by increases in sales of high-value mobile managed NAND products enabled by strong demand and our transition to products featuring 64-layer TLC 3D NAND, partially offset by decreases in average selling prices of approximately 30%.Overall Gross MarginOur overall gross margin percentage decreased to 58% for the first quarter of 2019 from 61% for the fourth quarter of 2018 primarily due to declines in market pricing partially offset by manufacturing cost reductions for NAND products enabled by strong execution in delivering products featuring advanced 3D NAND technologies. For the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2018, margins for DRAM products decreased due to the declines in averages selling prices and margins for NAND products decreased as declines in average selling prices outpaced manufacturing cost reductions. 26Our overall gross margin percentage of 58% for the first quarter of 2019 increased from 55% for the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to strong execution in delivering products featuring advanced technologies, including 1Xnm DRAM and 64-layer 3D NAND, enabling manufacturing cost reductions. MBU revenue for the first quarter of 2019, which was comprised primarily of mobile LPDRAM and managed NAND products, increased 17% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2018. The increase was primarily due to an approximate 50% increase in sales volumes of managed NAND driven by strong customer demand and higher market share as well as higher sales of our LPDRAM products driven by customer demand. SBU revenue for the first quarter of 2019 decreased 8% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2018 primarily due to lower demand for NAND storage products resulting from customer inventory corrections in enterprise and cloud storage markets as well as a strategic allocation from storage products to mobile managed NAND products. EBU revenue for the first quarter of 2019 increased slightly from the fourth quarter of 2018 due to continuing strength in industrial and automotive markets. EBU revenue was comprised of products incorporating DRAM, NAND, and NOR Flash in decreasing order of revenue.CNBU revenue for the first quarter of 2019 increased 12% as compared to the first quarter of 2018 due to demand growth across key markets which drove increases in pricing and sales volumes. MBU revenue for the first quarter of 2019 increased 62% as compared to the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to strong execution in developing and qualifying mobile managed NAND products as bit shipment volumes were more than six times the level in the prior year. MBU sales of LPDRAM products also increased for the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 due to strong customer demand. SBU revenue from sales of NAND products for the first quarter of 2019 decreased by a low twenties percentage as compared to the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to declines in SBU NAND component sales from a strategic reallocation of supply from component sales to mobile managed NAND products. Increases in SBU sales volumes of SSDs for the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 were offset by declines in pricing. MBU operating income for the first quarter of 2019 improved from the fourth quarter of 2018 primarily due to increases in managed NAND and LPDRAM sales volumes and manufacturing cost reductions, which outpaced pricing declines. SBU operating income for the first quarter of 2019 decreased from the fourth quarter of 2018 primarily due to price declines, which were partially offset by manufacturing cost reductions enabled by our execution in transitioning to 64-layer TLC 3D NAND products. EBU operating income for the first quarter of 2019 was relatively unchanged from the fourth quarter of 2018.CNBU operating income for the first quarter of 2019 increased from the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to improved pricing and higher sales volumes resulting from growth in demand for our products combined with manufacturing cost reductions. MBU operating income for the first quarter of 2019 increased from the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to increases in pricing and sales volumes for LPDRAM products, higher sales of managed NAND products, and manufacturing cost reductions. SBU operating income for the first quarter of 2019 decreased from the first quarter of 2018 primarily due to price declines, which were partially offset by manufacturing cost reductions. SBU operating income for the first quarter of 2019 was adversely impacted by fixed costs associated with underutilization of our share of IMFT's capacity. Because of the lead times necessary to manufacture our products, we typically begin to process wafers before completion of performance and reliability testing. Development of a product is deemed complete when it is qualified through reviews and tests for performance and reliability. We operate in a number of tax jurisdictions outside the Unites States, including Singapore, where we have tax incentive arrangements, which expire in whole or in part at various dates through 2031, that are conditional, in part, upon meeting certain business operations and employment thresholds. Interest income for the first quarter of 2019 increased 12% and 65% as compared to the fourth and first quarters of 2018, respectively, primarily due to increases in cash generated from operations that was invested in short-term and long-term investments.Further discussion of other operating and non-operating income and expenses can be found in the following notes contained in "Item 1. Cash generated from operations is highly dependent on selling prices for our products, which can vary significantly from period to period. We are continuously evaluating alternatives for efficiently funding our capital expenditures and ongoing operations. We expect, from time to time, to engage in a variety of financing transactions for such purposes, including the issuance of securities. We have an undrawn revolving credit facility that expires in July 2023 and provides for borrowings of up to $2.50 billion. We estimate that capital expenditures in 2019 for property, plant, and equipment, net of partner contributions, to be $9 billion to $9.5 billion, focused on technology transitions and product enablement. The actual amounts for 2019 will vary depending on market conditions. The repurchase authorization does not obligate us to 29acquire any common stock. In the first quarter of 2019, we repurchased an aggregate of 42 million shares of our common stock for $1.80 billion under an accelerated share repurchase agreement, a Rule 10b5-1 plan, and through open market repurchases.At any time through December 2018, Intel can exercise its option to require us to purchase, and from January 2019 through December 2021, we can exercise our option to purchase from Intel, Intel's interest in IMFT. On October 18, 2018, we announced our intent to exercise our option to acquire Intel's interest in IMFT. Upon such exercise, Intel can elect to set the closing date of the transaction to be any time between six months and one year from the date we exercise our option. At the time of close, we expect to pay approximately $1.5 billion in cash for the transaction, dissolving Intel's noncontrolling interest in IMFT as well as IMFT Member Debt, which was $1 billion as of November 29, 2018.Cash and marketable investments totaled $7.13 billion and $7.28 billion as of November 29, 2018 and August 30, 2018, respectively. Our investments consist primarily of money market funds and liquid investment-grade, fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. As a result of the corporate reorganization proceedings of MMJ initiated in March 2012, and for so long as such proceedings are continuing, the MMJ Group is prohibited from paying dividends to us. In addition, pursuant to an order of the Tokyo District Court, the MMJ Group cannot make loans or advances, other than certain ordinary course advances, to us without the consent of the Tokyo District Court and may, under certain circumstances, be subject to the approval of the legal trustee. As a result, the assets of the MMJ Group are not available for use by us in our other operations. Our ability to access funds held by IMFT to finance our other operations is subject to agreement by Intel and contractual limitations. For the first quarter of 2018, net cash used for financing activities consisted primarily of cash payments to reduce our debt, including $2.64 billion to repurchase debt and settle conversions of notes and $109 million for scheduled repayment of other notes and capital leases. Cash used for financing activities in the first quarter of 2018 was partially offset by net proceeds of $1.36 billion from the issuance of 34 million shares of our common stock for $41.00 per share in a public offering.Potential Settlement Obligations of Convertible NotesSince the closing price of our common stock exceeded 130% of the conversion price per share of all our convertible notes for at least 20 trading days in the 30 trading day period ended on September 30, 2018, holders may convert such notes at any time through the calendar quarter ended December 31, 2018. Additionally, the closing price of our common stock also exceeded the thresholds for our 2032D Notes and 2033F Notes for the calendar quarter ended December 31, 2018; therefore, such notes are convertible by the holders at any time through March 31, 2019. The following table summarizes the potential settlements that we could be required to make for the calendar quarter ending December 31, 2018 if all holders converted their notes. The amounts in the table below are based on our closing share price of $37.91 as of November 29, 2018. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 30, 2018. Contracts with our 31customers are generally short-term in duration at fixed, negotiated prices with payment generally due shortly after delivery. We estimate a liability for returns using the expected value method based on historical rates of return. In addition, we generally offer price protection to our distributors, which is a form of variable consideration that decreases the transaction price. We estimate the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to from sales to distributors, using the expected value method, based on historical price adjustment claims and current pricing trends. The difference between the estimated and actual amount is recognized as an adjustment to revenue.Recently Adopted Accounting StandardsSee "Item 1. Financial Statements – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Recently Adopted Accounting Standards. "Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet AdoptedSee "Item 1. Financial Statements – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted. "ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKWe are affected by changes in currency exchange and interest rates. For further discussion about market risk and sensitivity analysis related to changes in currency exchange rates, see "Part II - Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 30, 2018.ITEM 4. Based upon that evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that those disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act are recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decision regarding disclosure.During the first quarter of 2019, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.PART II. OTHER INFORMATION ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS For a discussion of legal proceedings, see "Part I – Item 3. Legal Proceedings" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 30, 2018 and "Part I. Financial Information – Item 1. Financial Statements – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Contingencies" and "Item 1A. Risk Factors" herein.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, the following are important factors, the order of which is not necessarily indicative of the level of risk that each poses to us, which could cause actual results or events to differ 32materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us. Our operations could also be affected by other factors that are presently unknown to us or not considered significant. Any of the factors below could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or stock price.We have experienced volatility in average selling prices for our semiconductor memory and storage products which may adversely affect our business.We have experienced significant volatility in our average selling prices, including dramatic declines, as noted in the table below, and may continue to experience such volatility in the future. In some prior periods, average selling prices for our products have been below our manufacturing costs and we may experience such circumstances in the future. Average selling prices for our products that decline faster than our costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. In future periods, we may be unable to reduce our per gigabit manufacturing costs at sufficient levels to maintain or improve gross margins. Factors that may limit our ability to reduce costs include, but are not limited to, strategic product diversification decisions affecting product mix, the increasing complexity of manufacturing processes, difficulties in transitioning to smaller line-width process technologies, 3D memory layers, NAND cell levels, process complexity including number of mask layers and fabrication steps, manufacturing yield, technological barriers, changes in process technologies, and new products that may require relatively larger die sizes. Per gigabit manufacturing costs may also be affected by a broader product portfolio, which may have smaller production quantities and shorter product lifecycles. Our inability to maintain or improve gross margins could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.The semiconductor memory and storage markets are highly competitive.We face intense competition in the semiconductor memory and storage markets from a number of companies, including Intel; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.; SK Hynix Inc.; Toshiba Memory Corporation; and Western Digital Corporation. Some of our competitors are large corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources to invest in technology, capitalize on growth opportunities, and withstand downturns in the semiconductor markets in which we compete. Consolidation of industry competitors could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In particular, we face the threat of increasing competition as a result of significant investment in the semiconductor industry by the Chinese government and various state-owned or affiliated entities that is intended to advance China's stated national policy objectives. In addition, the Chinese government may restrict us from participating in the China market or may prevent us from competing effectively with Chinese companies.Our competitors generally seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields, and reduce die size in their product designs which may result in significant increases in worldwide supply and downward pressure on prices. Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory and storage also result from fabrication capacity expansions, either by way of new facilities, increased capacity utilization, or reallocation of other semiconductor production to semiconductor memory and storage production. Our competitors may increase capital expenditures resulting in future increases in worldwide supply. We and some of our competitors have plans to ramp, or are constructing or ramping, production at new fabrication facilities. Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory and storage, if not accompanied by commensurate increases in demand, would lead to further declines in average selling prices for our products and would materially adversely affect our business, results of 33operations, or financial condition. If competitors are more successful at developing or implementing new product or process technology, their products could have cost or performance advantages.The competitive nature of our industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain access to external financing necessary to fund our operations, make scheduled debt payments, and make adequate capital investments.Our cash flows from operations depend primarily on the volume of semiconductor memory and storage products sold, average selling prices, and manufacturing costs. We estimate that capital expenditures in 2019 for property, plant, and equipment, net of partner contributions, to be $9 billion to $9.5 billion, focused on technology transitions and product enablement.As a result of the corporate reorganization proceedings of MMJ initiated in 2012, and for so long as such proceedings are continuing, MMJ is prohibited from paying dividends, including any cash dividends, to us and such proceedings require that excess earnings be used in MMJ's business or to fund the MMJ creditor payments. In addition, pursuant to an order of the Tokyo District Court, MMJ cannot make loans or advances, other than certain ordinary course advances, to us without the consent of the Tokyo District Court and may, under certain circumstances, be subject to approval of the legal trustee. As a result, the assets of MMJ are not available for use by us in our other operations. As a result of our debt levels, expected debt amortization, and general economic conditions, it may be difficult for us to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows, use cash held by MMJ to fund its capital expenditures, access capital markets or find other sources of financing to fund our operations, make debt payments, and make adequate capital investments to remain competitive in terms of technology development and cost efficiency. Our inability to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Our future success depends on our ability to develop and produce competitive new memory and storage technologies.Our key semiconductor memory and storage products and technologies face technological barriers to continue to meet long-term customer needs. We may face technological barriers to continue to shrink our products at our current or historical rate, which has generally reduced per-unit cost. Accordingly, our future success may depend on our ability to develop and produce viable and competitive new memory and storage technologies. There is no assurance that our efforts to develop and market new product technologies will be successful. Unsuccessful efforts to develop new semiconductor memory and storage technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.A significant concentration of our revenue is to a select number of customers.In each of the last three years, approximately one-half of our total revenue was from our top ten customers. A disruption in our relationship with any of these customers could adversely affect our business. We could experience fluctuations in our customer base or the mix of revenue by customer as markets and strategies evolve. In addition, any consolidation of our 34customers could reduce the number of customers to whom our products could be sold. Our inability to meet our customers' requirements or to qualify our products with them could adversely impact our revenue. The loss of one or more of our major customers or any significant reduction in orders from, or a shift in product mix by, these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We have been served with complaints in Chinese courts alleging patent infringement.We have been served with complaints in Chinese courts alleging that we infringe certain Chinese patents by manufacturing and selling certain products in China. The complaints seek orders requiring us to destroy inventory of the accused products and equipment for manufacturing the accused products in China, to stop manufacturing, using, selling, and offering for sale the accused products in China, and to pay damages plus court fees.We are unable to predict the outcome of these assertions of infringement made against us and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Financial Information – Item 1. Financial Statements – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Contingencies. Similar cases were subsequently filed in federal court in the United States, as well as in Canadian courts in Quebec, Montreal and Toronto, Ontario. The complaints seek treble monetary damages, costs, interest, attorneys' fees, and other injunctive and equitable relief. On May 31, 2018, SAMR made unannounced visits to our sales offices in Beijing, Shanghai, and Shenzhen to seek certain information as part of its investigation. We are cooperating with SAMR in its investigation.We are unable to predict the outcome of these matters and therefore cannot estimate the range of possible loss. The final resolution of these matters could result in significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.New product and market development may be unsuccessful.We are developing new products, including system-level memory and storage products and solutions, which complement our traditional products or leverage their underlying design or process technology. We have made significant investments in product and process technology and anticipate expending significant resources for new semiconductor product and system-level solution development over the next several years. Additionally, we are increasingly differentiating our products and solutions to meet the specific demands of our customers, which increases our reliance on our customer's ability to accurately forecast the end-customer's needs and preferences. As a result, our product demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our customers. In order to continue our success, we must develop, manufacture, and qualify the products our customers need at the time they need those products. The process to develop new products requires us to demonstrate advanced functionality and performance, often well in advance of a planned ramp of production, in order to secure design wins with our customers. In addition, some of our components have long lead-times, requiring us to place orders several months in advance of anticipated demand. Such long lead-times increase the risk of excess inventory or loss of sales in the event our forecasts vary substantially from actual demand. At any time through December 2018, Intel can exercise its option to require us to purchase, and from January 2019 through December 2021, we can exercise our option to purchase from Intel, Intel's interest in IMFT. On October 18, 2018, we announced our intent to exercise our option to acquire Intel's interest in IMFT. Upon such exercise, Intel can elect to set the closing date of the transaction to be any time between six months and one year from the date we exercise our option. Developing and manufacturing system-level products with specifications unique to a customer increases our reliance upon that customer for purchasing our products in sufficient volume, quantity, and in a timely manner. If we fail to identify or develop products on a timely basis, or at all, that comply with our customers' specifications or achieve design wins with our customers, we may experience a significant adverse impact on our revenues and margins. Even if our products meet customer specifications, our sales of system-level solutions are dependent upon our customers choosing our products over those of our competitors and purchasing our products at sufficient volumes and prices. Our competitors' products may be less costly, provide better performance, or include additional features when compared to our products. Our long-term ability to sell system-level memory and storage products is reliant upon our customers' ability to create, market, and sell their products containing our system-level solutions at sufficient volumes and prices in a timely manner. If we fail to successfully develop and market system-level products, our business, results of operations, or financial condition may be materially adversely affected.Even if we are successful in selling system-level solutions to our customers in sufficient volume, we may be unable to generate sufficient profit if our per-unit manufacturing costs exceed our per-unit selling prices. Manufacturing system-level solutions to customer specifications requires a longer development cycle, as compared to discrete products, to design, test, and qualify, which may increase our costs. Additionally, some of our system solutions are increasingly dependent on sophisticated firmware that may require significant customization to meet customer specifications, which increases our costs and time to market. System complexities and extended warranties for system-level products could also increase our warranty costs. From time to time, we experience problems with nonconforming, defective, or incompatible products after we have shipped such products. In recent periods, we have further diversified and expanded our product offerings, which could potentially increase the chance that one or more of our products could fail to meet specifications in a particular application. Our products and solutions may be deemed fully or partially responsible for functions in our customers' products and may result in sharing or shifting of product or financial liability from our customers to us for costs incurred by the end user as a result of our customers' products failing to perform as specified. As of November 29, 2018, we had debt with a carrying value of $4.13 billion and may borrow up to an additional $2.50 billion under an undrawn revolving credit facility. In addition, as of November 29, 2018, the conversion value in excess of principal of our convertible notes was $877 million, based on the trading price of our common stock of $37.91 per share on such date.Our debt obligations could adversely impact us. This, to some extent, is subject to market, economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that additional capital will be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to meet our debt payment 37obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. Additionally, events and circumstances may occur which would cause us to not be able to satisfy applicable draw-down conditions and utilize our revolving credit facility. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to service our debt payment obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may be unable to meet our debt payment obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We may be unable to protect our intellectual property or retain key employees who are knowledgeable of and develop our intellectual property.We maintain a system of controls over our intellectual property, including U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, licensing arrangements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with employees, consultants, and vendors, and a general system of internal controls. Despite our system of controls over our intellectual property, it may be possible for our current or future competitors to obtain, copy, use, or disclose, illegally or otherwise, our product and process technology or other proprietary information. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same degree as do U.S. laws and our confidentiality, non-disclosure, and non-compete agreements may be unenforceable or difficult and costly to enforce.Additionally, our ability to maintain and develop intellectual property is dependent upon our ability to attract, develop, and retain highly skilled employees. Global competition for such skilled employees in our industry is intense. If our competitors or future entrants into our industry are successful in hiring our employees, they may directly benefit from the knowledge these employees gained while they were under our employment.Our inability to protect our intellectual property or retain key employees who are knowledgeable of and develop our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Claims that our products or manufacturing processes infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, or failure to obtain or renew license agreements covering such intellectual property, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.As is typical in the semiconductor and other high technology industries, from time to time others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our products or manufacturing processes infringe upon, misappropriate, misuse, or otherwise violate their intellectual property rights. We are unable to predict the outcome of these assertions made against us. Any of these types of claims, regardless of the merits, could subject us to significant costs to defend or resolve such claims and may consume a substantial portion of management's time and attention. Financial Information – Item 1. Financial Statements – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Contingencies. Some of these license agreements require us to make one-time or periodic payments. We may need to obtain additional licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future. We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on terms acceptable to us. The failure to obtain or renew licenses as necessary could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business or otherwise, both domestically and internationally. Any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees that could negatively impact our financial results, disrupt our operations, and require significant attention from our 38management. We could be subject to litigation or arbitration disputes arising from our relationships with vendors or customers, supply agreements, or contractual obligations with our subcontractors or business partners. We may also be associated with and subject to litigation arising from the actions of our subcontractors or business partners. We may also be subject to litigation as a result of indemnities we issue, primarily with our customers, the terms of our product warranties, and from product liability claims. As we continue to focus on developing system solutions with manufacturers of consumer products, including autonomous driving, augmented reality, and others, we may be exposed to greater potential for personal liability claims against us as a result of consumers' use of those products. There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured to protect against all claims and potential liabilities, and we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters. Exposures to various litigation could lead to significant costs and expenses as we defend claims, are required to pay damage awards, or enter into settlement agreements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.If our manufacturing process is disrupted, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.We and our subcontractors manufacture products using highly complex processes that require technologically advanced equipment and continuous modification to improve yields and performance. Difficulties in the manufacturing process or the effects from a shift in product mix can reduce yields or disrupt production and may increase our per gigabit manufacturing costs. We and our subcontractors maintain operations and continuously implement new product and process technology at manufacturing facilities, which are widely dispersed in multiple locations in several countries including the United States, Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, Malaysia, and China. Additionally, our control over operations at IMFT is limited by our agreements with Intel. From time to time, there have been disruptions in the manufacturing process as a result of power outages, improperly functioning equipment, disruptions in supply of raw materials or components, equipment failures, earthquakes, or other environmental events. If production is disrupted for any reason, manufacturing yields may be adversely affected or we may be unable to meet our customers' requirements and they may purchase products from other suppliers. This could result in a significant increase in manufacturing costs, loss of revenues, or damage to customer relationships, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Increases in tariffs or other trade restrictions or taxes on our or our customers' products or equipment and supplies could have an adverse impact on our operations.In 2018, 88% of our revenue was from customers located outside the United States. We also purchase a significant portion of equipment and supplies from suppliers outside the United States. Additionally, a significant portion of our facilities are located outside the United States, including Taiwan, Singapore, Japan, and China. The United States and other countries have levied tariffs and taxes on certain goods. General trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating in 2018, with three rounds of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July, August, and September 2018, each followed by a round of retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods. Some of our products are included in these announced tariffs. Higher duties on existing tariffs and further rounds of tariffs have been announced or threatened by U.S. and Chinese leaders. For example, a U.S. tariff on Chinese goods, including certain of our products, was scheduled to increase from 10% to 25% on January 1, 2019; however, that increase has been delayed for 90 days pending trade negotiations between the U.S. and China. If the U.S. were to impose additional tariffs on components that we or our suppliers source from China, our cost for such components would increase. We may also incur increases in manufacturing costs due to our efforts to mitigate the impact of tariffs on our customers and our operations. Additionally, tariffs on our customers' products could impact their sales of such end products, resulting in lower demand for our products. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in our industry can be intense. Our inability to attract and retain key employees may inhibit our ability to expand our business operations. The interlocutory judgments have no immediate, enforceable effect on us, and, accordingly, we expect to be able to continue to operate with full control of the Inotera Shares subject to further developments in the case. We have filed a notice of appeal, and the parties have submitted briefs to the appeals court.We are unable to predict the outcome of the matter and, therefore, cannot estimate the range of possible loss. We also manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. In addition, we process, store, and transmit large amounts of data relating to our customers and employees, including sensitive personal information. Unauthorized persons or employees may gain access to our facilities or network systems to steal trade secrets or other proprietary information, compromise confidential information, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. These parties may also be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that disrupt our operations and create security vulnerabilities. Although we hedge our primary exposures to changes in currency exchange rates from our monetary assets and liabilities, the effectiveness of these hedges is dependent upon our ability to accurately forecast our monetary assets and liabilities. In addition, a significant portion of our manufacturing costs are denominated in foreign currencies. Exchange rates for some of these currencies against the U.S. dollar, particularly the yen, have been volatile in recent periods. If these currencies strengthen against the U.S. dollar, our manufacturing costs could significantly increase. The global memory and storage industry has experienced consolidation and may continue to consolidate. We engage, from time to time, in discussions regarding potential acquisitions and similar opportunities. To the extent we are successful in completing any such transactions, we could be subject to some or all of the risks described above, including the risks pertaining to funding, assumption of liabilities, integration challenges, and increases in debt that may accompany such transactions. Acquisitions of, or alliances with, technology companies are inherently risky and may not be successful and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be adversely affected by the limited availability and quality of materials, supplies, and capital equipment, or the dependency on third-party service providers.Our supply chain and operations are dependent on the availability of materials that meet exacting standards and the use of third parties to provide us with components and services. We generally have multiple sources of supply for our raw materials and services. However, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials and services that meet our standards and, in some cases, materials, components, or services are provided by a single supplier. Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials or components such as chemicals, silicon wafers, gases, photoresist, controllers, substrates, lead frames, printed circuit boards, targets, and reticle glass blanks. Shortages or increases in lead times may occur from time to time in the future. Our manufacturing processes are also dependent on our relationships with third-party manufacturers of controllers used in a number of our products and with outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers, contract manufacturers, logistic carriers, and other service providers. Certain raw materials are primarily available in certain countries, including rare earth minerals available primarily from China, and trade disputes or other political or economic conditions may limit our availability to obtain such raw materials. In addition, disruptions in transportation lines could delay our receipt of raw materials. Lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past. The disruption of our supply of raw materials, components, services, or the extension of our lead times could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Our operations are dependent on our ability to procure advanced semiconductor manufacturing equipment that enables the transition to lower cost manufacturing processes. For certain key types of equipment, including photolithography tools, we are sometimes dependent on a single supplier. From time to time, we have experienced difficulties in obtaining some equipment on a timely basis due to suppliers' limited capacity. Our inability to obtain equipment on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to transition to next generation manufacturing processes and reduce our costs. Delays in obtaining equipment could also impede our ability to ramp production at new facilities and could increase our overall costs of a ramp. Our inability to obtain 41advanced semiconductor manufacturing equipment in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.A downturn in the worldwide economy may harm our business.Downturns in the worldwide economy have harmed our business in the past and future downturns could also adversely affect our business. Adverse economic conditions affect demand for devices that incorporate our products, such as personal computers, mobile devices, SSDs, and servers. Reduced demand for these products could result in significant decreases in our average selling prices and product sales. A deterioration of current conditions in worldwide credit markets could limit our ability to obtain external financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures. In addition, we may experience losses on our holdings of cash and investments due to failures of financial institutions and other parties. Difficult economic conditions may also result in a higher rate of losses on our accounts receivables due to credit defaults. As a result, a downturn in the worldwide economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Our results of operations could be affected by natural disasters and other events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. We have manufacturing and other operations in locations subject to natural occurrences such as severe weather and geological events, including earthquakes or tsunamis, that could disrupt operations or result in construction delays. In addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in such locations. A natural disaster, fire, explosion, or other event that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or the operations of our customers or suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.Our incentives from various governments are conditional upon achieving or maintaining certain performance obligations and are subject to reduction, termination, or clawback.We have received, and may in the future continue to receive, benefits and incentives from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world designed to encourage us to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production in those regions. These incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax arrangements, and typically require us to perform or maintain certain levels of investment, capital spending, employment, technology deployment, or research and development activities to qualify for such incentives. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully achieve performance obligations required to qualify for these incentives or that the granting agencies will provide such funding. These incentive arrangements typically provide the granting agencies with rights to audit our performance with the terms and obligations. Such audits could result in modifications to, or termination of, the applicable incentive program. The incentives we receive could be subject to reduction, termination, or clawback, and any decrease or clawback of government incentives could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.A change in tax laws in key jurisdictions could materially increase our tax expense.We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Changes to income tax laws and regulations in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, or in the interpretation of such laws, could significantly increase our effective tax rate and ultimately reduce our cash flow from operating activities and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Additionally, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue. Further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, which represents a coalition of member countries and recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. If adopted by countries, such changes, as well as changes in U.S. federal and state tax laws or in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure.We operate in a number of locations outside the United States, including Singapore, where we have tax incentive arrangements that are conditional, in part, upon meeting certain business operations and employment thresholds. Our domestic and international taxes are dependent upon the geographic mix of our earnings among these jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liabilities in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including challenges by tax 42authorities to our tax positions and intercompany transfer pricing agreements, failure to meet performance obligations with respect to tax incentive agreements, and changes in tax laws and regulations. Additionally, we file income tax returns with the U.S. federal government, various U.S. states, and various other jurisdictions throughout the world and certain tax returns may remain open to examination for several years. The results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. The foregoing items could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We may incur additional restructuring charges in future periods.From time to time, we have, and may in the future, enter into restructure initiatives in order to, among other items, streamline our operations, respond to changes in business conditions, our markets or product offerings, or to centralize certain key functions. We may not realize expected savings or other benefits from our restructure activities and may incur additional restructure charges or other losses in future periods associated with other initiatives. In connection with any restructure initiatives, we could incur restructure charges, loss of production output, loss of key personnel, disruptions in our operations, and difficulties in the timely delivery of products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We face risks associated with our international sales and operations that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.A substantial majority of our consolidated revenue is from customers located outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside the United States. In particular, a significant portion of our manufacturing operations are concentrated in Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, and China. For example, the United States government has in the past banned American firms from selling products and software to certain of our customers and may in the future impose similar bans or other restrictions on sales to one or more of our significant customers. These "conflict minerals" are commonly found in materials used in the manufacture of semiconductors. The implementation of these regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some of these materials. This in turn may affect our ability to obtain materials necessary for the manufacture of our products in sufficient quantities and may affect related material pricing. Some of our customers may elect to disqualify us as a supplier or reduce purchases from us if we are unable to verify that our products are DRC conflict free. In addition, many of our customers have or are planning to 43adopt responsible sourcing programs with requirements that our broader in terms of minerals and geographies than DRC conflict minerals programs. Our inability to comply with requirements regarding the use of conflict and other minerals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We and others are subject to a variety of laws and regulations that may result in additional costs and liabilities.The manufacturing of our products requires the use of facilities, equipment, and materials that are subject to a broad array of laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions in which we operate. Additionally, we are subject to a variety of other laws and regulations relative to the construction, maintenance, and operations of our facilities. Any of these laws or regulations could cause us to incur additional direct costs, as well as increased indirect costs related to our relationships with our customers and suppliers, and otherwise harm our operations and financial condition. Any failure to comply with these laws or regulations could adversely impact our reputation and our financial results. Additionally, we engage various third parties to represent us or otherwise act on our behalf and we partner with other companies in our joint ventures, all of whom are also subject to a broad array of laws and regulations. Our engagement with these third parties and our ownership in these joint ventures may also expose us to risks associated with their respective compliance with these laws and regulations. We have numerous arrangements with financial institutions that subject us to counterparty default risks, including cash deposits, investments, capped call contracts on our common stock, and derivative instruments. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these arrangements will default on its performance obligations. A counterparty may not comply with their contractual commitments which could then lead to their defaulting on their obligations with little or no notice to us, which could limit our ability to take action to mitigate our exposure. Additionally, our ability to mitigate our exposures may be constrained by the terms of our contractual arrangements or because market conditions prevent us from taking effective action. If one of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty's default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable laws governing the bankruptcy proceedings. The business trustee is responsible for overseeing the operation of the business of MMJ, other than oversight in relation to acts that need to be carried out in connection with the Japan Proceedings, which are the responsibility of the legal trustee. MMJ's reorganization proceedings in Japan, and oversight of the Tokyo District Court, will continue until the final creditor payment is made under MMJ's plan of reorganization, which is scheduled to occur in December 2019, but may occur on a later date to the extent any claims of creditors remain unfixed on the final scheduled installment payment date. MMJ may petition the Tokyo District Court for an early termination of the reorganization proceedings once two-thirds of all payments under the plan of reorganization are made. Although such early terminations are customarily granted, there can be no assurance that the Tokyo District Court will grant any such petition in this particular case.During the pendency of the reorganization proceedings in Japan, MMJ is obligated to provide periodic financial reports to the Tokyo District Court and may be required to obtain the consent of the Tokyo District Court prior to taking a number of significant actions relating to its businesses, including transferring or disposing of, or acquiring, certain material assets, incurring or guaranteeing material indebtedness, settling material disputes, or entering into certain material agreements. The 44consent of the legal trustee may also be required for matters that would likely have a material impact on the operations or assets of MMJ or for transfers of material assets, to the extent the matters or transfers would reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect execution of MMJ's plan of reorganization. Accordingly, during the pendency of the reorganization proceedings in Japan, our ability to operate MMJ as part of our global business or to cause MMJ to take certain actions that we deem advisable for its business could be adversely affected if the Tokyo District Court or the legal trustee is unwilling to consent to various actions that we may wish to take with respect to MMJ.The operations of MMJ being subject to the continued oversight by the Tokyo District Court during the pendency of the corporate reorganization proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDSIn May 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the discretionary repurchase of up to $10 billion of our outstanding common stock beginning in 2019. The repurchase authorization does not obligate us to acquire any common stock. In the first quarter of 2019, we repurchased an aggregate of 42 million shares of our common stock for $1.80 billion under an accelerated share repurchase agreement, Rule 10b5-1 plans, and through open market repurchases. Those withheld shares of common stock are not considered common stock repurchases under an authorized common stock repurchase plan and accordingly are excluded from the amounts in the table above.456.