FINANCIAL INFORMATIONItem 1. The Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes thereto are unaudited. In the opinion of the Company’s management, the Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all adjustments, which are of a normal recurring nature, that are necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s interim financial results.In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company created a grantor trust, which now holds the majority of the funds provided by its clients pending remittance to employees of those clients, tax authorities, and other payees. The Company is the sole beneficial owner of the trust. Further information on these funds and the Company’s obligations to remit to its clients’ employees, tax authorities, and other payees is provided in Note 8, “Corporate Investments and Funds Held for Clients.” The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and accumulated other comprehensive income that are reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes thereto. Actual results may differ from those estimates. The Interim Financial Data by Segment footnote reflects changes to the allocation methodology for certain allocations and has been adjusted in both the current period and the prior period and did not materially affect reportable segment results. Refer to Note 16 for further information. Interim financial results are not necessarily indicative of financial results for a full year. The March 31, 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect the reclassification out of accumulated other comprehensive income and into retained earnings of $42.3 million. The Company's policy for releasing disproportionate income tax effects from AOCI utilizes the aggregate approach. Refer to Note 15 for additional detail regarding the components of the reclassification. The adoption of ASU 2018-02 did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations or cash flows. ASU 2016-18 requires that the statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. The Company retrospectively adopted the new standard, and as a result included restricted cash with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts presented on the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows. Accordingly, the statement of cash flows has been revised to include restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents associated with funds held to satisfy client obligations, as a component of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents. The guidance eliminates the second step of the current two-step process that requires the impairment to be measured as the difference between the implied value of a reporting unit’s goodwill with the goodwill’s carrying amount. ASU 2017-01 clarifies the definition of a business in order to allow for the evaluation of whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses. The adoption of ASU 2017-01 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. The other components of net periodic pension cost are required to be presented in the Statements of Consolidated Earnings separately from the service cost component. Such changes are to be applied retrospectively from the date of adoption. The ASU also allows only the service cost component to be eligible for capitalization, when applicable, prospectively from the date of adoption.For fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted.The Company will adopt ASU 2017-07 beginning on July 1, 2018. This ASU will be applied retrospectively and will require the reclassification of the non-service cost components of the net periodic benefit cost from within the respective line items of our Statements of Consolidated Earnings to Other income, net. Also, the requirement set forth under this ASU only allows the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost to be capitalized. The Company does not expect the adoption of the new accounting rules to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. This ASU requires a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after, the date of initial application.For fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted.The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 beginning on July 1, 2019. These new standards require an entity to recognize revenue depicting the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standards will also result in enhanced revenue related disclosures. Entities have the option to apply the new guidance under a retrospective approach to each prior reporting period presented or a modified retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new guidance recognized at the date of initial application within the Statements of Consolidated Financial Position.For fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted.The Company has been assessing the impact of the new revenue recognition standard on its relationships with its clients. In fiscal 2017, the Company determined it would not early adopt the standard, and instead would adopt the new standard in its fiscal year beginning on July 1, 2018. Further, the Company anticipates applying the guidance under the full retrospective approach. The Company is nearly complete with its comprehensive diagnostic of the measurement and recognition provisions of the new standard and is in the process of finalizing its conclusions and policies. The provisions of the new standard will require the Company to capitalize and amortize additional implementation costs than those capitalized and amortized under current U.S. GAAP. Further, under current U.S. GAAP, the Company immediately expenses all selling expenses. These capitalized expenses will be amortized over the expected client life. While the Company grows, the impact of deferring and amortizing additional costs creates higher overall pre-tax income, net earnings, and earnings per share, when compared to current U.S. GAAP. The Company does not expect the provisions of the new standard to materially impact the timing or amount of revenue it recognizes.The Company is substantially complete in determining the impacts of all the disclosure requirements. Additionally, while the Company is in the process of assessing its accounting and forecasting processes to ensure its ability to record, report, forecast, and analyze results under the new standard, it is not expecting significant changes to its business processes or systems.9Note 3. The acquisition of GCC makes ADP the only human capital management provider with a proprietary digital payments processing platform. The results of GCC are reported within the Company’s Employer Services segment. The goodwill recorded as a result of the GCC transaction represents future economic benefits we expect to achieve as a result of the acquisition and expected cost synergies. None of the goodwill resulting from the acquisition is tax deductible. The results of WorkMarket are reported within the Company’s Employer Services segment. The acquisition was not material to the Company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows and, therefore, the pro forma impact of these acquisitions is not presented. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price is based upon estimates and assumptions that are subject to change within the purchase price allocation period, which is generally one year from the acquisition date. The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the measurement of certain assets and liabilities, certain tax matters, and residual goodwill. Accordingly, the measurement period for such purchase price allocations will end when the information becomes available but will not exceed twelve months from the date of acquisition.Note 4. The historical results of operations of these businesses are included in the Employer Services segment. The Company determined that the CHSA and COBRA divestitures did not meet the criteria for reporting discontinued operations under ASU 2014-08 as the disposition of these businesses does not represent a strategic shift that has a major effect on the Company's operations or financial results. Note 5. Service Alignment InitiativeOn July 28, 2016, the Company announced a Service Alignment Initiative that is intended to simplify the Company's service organization by aligning the Company's service operations to its strategic platforms and locations. The Company began incurring charges during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. 11Note 6. Note 7. All available-for-sale securities were included in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. All available-for-sale securities were included in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 13For a description of the fair value hierarchy and the Company's fair value methodologies, including the use of an independent third-party pricing service, see Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2017. The Company did not transfer any assets between Levels during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 or fiscal 2017. In addition, the Company concurred with and did not adjust the prices obtained from the independent pricing service. 14At March 31, 2018, asset-backed securities include AAA rated senior tranches of securities with predominantly prime collateral of fixed-rate credit card, auto loan, equipment lease, and rate reduction receivables with fair values of $2,050.3 million, $1,685.8 million, $454.2 million, and $210.5 million, respectively. These securities are collateralized by the cash flows of the underlying pools of receivables. The primary risk associated with these securities is the collection risk of the underlying receivables. All collateral on such asset-backed securities has performed as expected through March 31, 2018.At March 31, 2018, U.S. government agency securities primarily include debt directly issued by Federal Home Loan Banks and Federal Farm Credit Banks with fair values of $2,045.6 million and $596.8 million, respectively. The client funds obligations represent liabilities that will be repaid within one year of the balance sheet date. The Company has reported client funds obligations as a current liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets totaling $33,943.7 million and $27,189.4 million at March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively. The Company has classified funds held for clients as a current asset since these funds are held solely for the purposes of satisfying the client funds obligations. Of the Company’s funds held for clients at March 31, 2018, $29,879.6 million are held in the grantor trust. The liabilities held within the trust are intercompany liabilities to other Company subsidiaries and eliminate in consolidation.The Company has reported the cash flows related to the purchases of corporate and client funds marketable securities and related to the proceeds from the sales and maturities of corporate and client funds marketable securities on a gross basis in the investing section of the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows. These amounts have been reconciled to the Consolidated Balance Sheets on the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows. Refer to Note 2 for a summary of the change in presentation as a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-18. All available-for-sale securities were rated as investment grade at March 31, 2018. All intangible assets have finite lives and, as such, are subject to amortization. Short-term FinancingThe Company has a $3.5 billion, 364-day credit agreement that matures in June 2018 with a one year term-out option. The Company also has a $2.25 billion five-year credit facility that matures in June 2022 that also contains an accordion feature under which the aggregate commitment can be increased by $500 million, subject to the availability of additional commitments. In addition, the Company has a five-year $3.75 billion credit facility maturing in June 2021 that contains an accordion feature under which the aggregate commitment can be increased by $500 million, subject to the availability of additional commitments. The interest rate applicable to committed borrowings is tied to LIBOR, the effective federal funds rate, or the prime rate, depending on the notification provided by the Company to the syndicated financial institutions prior to borrowing. The Company is also required to pay facility fees on the credit agreements. The primary uses of the credit facilities are to provide liquidity to the commercial paper program and funding for general corporate purposes, if necessary. The Company had no borrowings through March 31, 2018 under the credit agreements.The Company's U.S. short-term funding requirements related to client funds are sometimes obtained on an unsecured basis through the issuance of commercial paper, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. This commercial paper program provides for the issuance of up to $9.5 billion in aggregate maturity value. These ratings denote the highest quality commercial paper securities. Maturities of commercial paper can range from overnight to up to 364 days. At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2017, the Company had no commercial paper outstanding. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company had average daily borrowings of $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 1.5% and 0.7%, respectively. For the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company had average daily borrowings of $2.8 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 1.2% and 0.5%, respectively. The weighted average maturity of the Company’s commercial paper during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 was approximately one day and two days, respectively. The Company’s U.S. and Canadian short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations are sometimes obtained on a secured basis through the use of reverse repurchase agreements, which are collateralized principally by government and government agency securities, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. These agreements generally have terms ranging from overnight to up to five business days. At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2017, there were no outstanding obligations related to the reverse repurchase agreements. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company had average outstanding balances under reverse repurchase agreements of $99.0 million and $145.0 million, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 1.2% and 0.5%, respectively. For the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company had average outstanding balances under reverse repurchase agreements of $389.5 million and $258.1 million, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 1.1% and 0.5%, respectively. Note 11. As of March 31, 2018, the fair value of the Notes, based on Level 2 inputs, was $1,993.2 million. For a description of the fair value hierarchy and the Company's fair value methodologies, including the use of an independent third-party service, see Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2017. Note 12. Employee Benefit PlansA. The Company also offers an employee stock purchase plan for eligible employees. The Company currently utilizes treasury stock to satisfy stock option exercises, issuances under the Company's employee stock purchase plan, and restricted stock awards. From time to time, the Company may repurchase shares of its common stock under its authorized share repurchase programs. The Company repurchased 1.7 million and 1.9 million shares in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively and repurchased 5.3 million and 10.4 million shares in the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The early retirement offer has been made to about 3,500 eligible associates, or approximately 6 percent of the Company’s workforce, who will meet the specific age and years of service criteria as of June 30, 2018. The Company also extended to all employees participating in the VERP the opportunity to continue health care coverage at active employee contribution rates for up to 24 months following retirement. ADP intends to fund a significant majority of the program costs from the existing surplus in ADP’s U.S. defined benefit plan, with the remaining portion of expenses expected to be funded from ADP’s U.S. corporate cash balances. Associates were required to finalize their election by May 1, 2018. The Company will recognize estimated certain special termination benefit pre-tax charges of approximately $300 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. In addition, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 the Company anticipates recording a non-cash settlement charge which is contingent on the number of participants electing the lump sum payment option and other actuarial assumptions, including the discount rate and long-term rate of return on assets. Lastly, the Company anticipates recording a cash charge for continued health care coverage, which is dependent upon the number of associates electing this benefit and the health care option selected by each associate. Note 13. Income TaxesThe effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was 24.6% and 29.0%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the impacts of the Act, the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions, and the benefit of a tax accounting method change filed with the IRS in the three months ended March 31, 2018, partially offset by the impact of a benefit due to tax incentives associated with the domestic production activity deduction and research tax credit in the three months ended March 31, 2017.The effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was 23.1% and 31.5%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the impacts of the Act and the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by prior period impacts of the sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses and the impact of a benefit due to tax incentives associated with the domestic production activity deduction and research tax credit.The Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. In accordance with ASC 740 companies are required to re-measure deferred tax balances using the new enacted tax rates. The Act requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of the Company's foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred for U.S. income taxes and creates new taxes on the Company's foreign sourced earnings. The rate change is administratively effective at the beginning of the Company's fiscal year resulting in a blended corporate statutory tax rate for fiscal 2018 of 28.1%.Income tax expense reported for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 reflect the effects of the Act and resulted in a decrease in income tax expense of approximately $140 million which includes a one-time net benefit of $42.9 million. The $42.9 million is comprised of the application of the newly enacted rates to the Company's U.S. deferred tax balances partially offset by the one-time transition tax and the recording of a valuation allowance against the Company's foreign tax credits which may not be realized. The Act’s foreign tax credit provisions may limit the Company’s ability to utilize existing foreign tax credits in future periods, accordingly we have estimated that approximately $20.6 million could expire unutilized. The accounting for the effects of the rate change on deferred tax balances is not complete and provisional amounts were recorded for these items. The Company re-measured certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. The benefit recorded relating to the re-measurement of the Company's deferred tax 19balances was $82.0 million. The Company recorded a provisional amount for the one-time transition tax liability of $18.6 million for the Company's foreign subsidiaries. Further, the transition tax is based in part on the amount of those earnings held in cash and other specified assets. Note 14. Uniloc alleged infringement of its patents concerning centralized management of application programs on a network, distribution of application programs to a target station on a network, management of configurable application programs on a network, and license use management on a network. The complaint sought unspecified monetary damages, costs, and injunctive relief. On September 28, 2017, the Court granted ADP’s motion to dismiss the complaint on the grounds that all asserted claims of the four patents are invalid and dismissed the case with prejudice.The Company has acquired a license to the four patents and a release for any potential past infringement liability. Despite the Company being licensed and released, Uniloc appealed the Court's invalidity determination to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The Company has moved to dismiss Uniloc's appeal on the ground that the license and release have removed any justiciable dispute between the parties concerning the patents; the Company's motion is pending. Even though the Company's motion is pending, as a result of the license and release the Company does not believe the result of Uniloc’s appeal will have a material adverse impact on the Company.The Company is subject to various claims, litigation and regulatory compliance matters in the normal course of business. When a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable, the Company records a liability in the amount of its best estimate for the ultimate loss. Management currently believes that the resolution of these claims, litigation and regulatory compliance matters against us, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. These matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future. It is not the Company’s business practice to enter into off-balance sheet arrangements. In the normal course of business, the Company may enter into contracts in which it makes representations and warranties that relate to the performance of the Company’s services and products. The Company does not expect any material losses related to such representations and warranties.20Note 15. Changes to the allocation methodology for certain allocations have been adjusted in both the current period and the prior period in the table below and did not materially affect reportable segment results.Certain revenues and expenses are charged to the reportable segments at a standard rate for management reasons. Other costs are recorded based on management responsibility. There is a reconciling item for the difference between actual interest income earned on invested funds held for clients and interest credited to Employer Services and PEO Services at a standard rate of 4.5%. This allocation is made for management reasons so that the reportable segments' results are presented on a consistent basis without the impact of fluctuations in interest rates. This reconciling adjustment to the reportable segments' revenues and earnings before income taxes is eliminated in consolidation. Subsequent EventsOn May 1, 2018 the election window for VERP eligible associates closed as discussed in Note 12. There are no further subsequent events for disclosure. 24Item 2. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words like “expects,” “assumes,” “projects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “we believe,” “could” and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management’s expectations and assumptions and depend upon or refer to future events or conditions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. ADP disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. These risks and uncertainties, along with the risk factors discussed under “Item 1A. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and other comprehensive income. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements. The estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts and circumstances. Actual amounts and results could differ from these estimates made by management. As a leader in this industry, we deliver on our global HCM strategy and make investments in highly strategic areas in order to strengthen our underlying business model and prospects for continued growth. Simultaneously, we continued to 25streamline our service organization. These actions are improving client satisfaction and retention. We remain focused on delivering results and executing on our strategy to transform our business for continued success within the competitive global HCM environment. Building upon our Service Alignment Initiative in support of our transformation goals, we recently announced a voluntary early retirement program and have also identified additional operational improvement initiatives. These initiatives support ADP’s ongoing strategy which is aimed at streamlining our operations and extending our world class distribution while leveraging our talent and culture. Our new business bookings increased 4% in the nine months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017. We are gaining momentum within our distribution channels and we are confident that the investments in our sales force and products will continue to drive solid results.Employer Services revenue retention improved 100 basis points during the nine months ended March 31, 2018. This focus is translating well as we are seeing strong retention on our strategic platforms.Our implementation team's ability to implement our services as well as our sales force's ability to sell to clients and prospects drove revenue growth during the nine months ended March 31, 2018. As the composition of work is increasingly moving toward the contingent, or "gig" worker, this acquisition will allow us to expand our market opportunities while building on our current portfolio of industry-leading payroll and human capital management solutions. We have a strong business model and operate in a global, growing market. We continue to maintain a high percentage of recurring revenues and healthy margins, and retain our ability to generate consistent healthy cash flows. Our financial condition and balance sheet remain solid at March 31, 2018, with cash and cash equivalents of approximately $2.3 billion. Our estimated fiscal 2018 adjusted effective tax rate is 26.2% and we anticipate a future adjusted effective tax rate, excluding one time items, of 25% to 26% beyond fiscal 2018. We believe that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by management and improves their ability to understand and assess our operating performance. The nature of these exclusions are for specific items that are not fundamental to our underlying business operations. The adjustments in the table above represent the interest income and interest expense that is not related to our client funds extended investment strategy and are labeled as "All other interest expense" and "All other interest income. Charges for transformation initiatives in other periods presented primarily represent severance charges related to our Service Alignment Initiative. Severance charges have been taken in the past and are not included as an adjustment to get to adjusted results. Unlike severance charges in prior periods, these specific charges relate to actions that are part of our broad-based, company-wide transformation initiative. The tax amount was adjusted for a book vs. tax basis difference for the nine months ended March 31, 2017 due to the derecognition of goodwill upon the sale of the business. The tax benefit on the non-operational charges related to proxy contest matters was calculated based on the annualized marginal rate in effect during the quarter of the adjustment. We are still analyzing certain aspects of the Act and refining calculations, which could potentially result in the re-measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to future adjustments. “Constant currency basis” is determined by calculating the current year result using foreign exchange rates consistent with the prior year.Total RevenuesOur revenues, as reported, increased 8% for three months ended March 31, 2018. Our revenue growth includes one percentage point of benefit from foreign currency and one percentage point of benefit from acquisitions. Our revenues, as reported, increased 7% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018. Our revenue growth includes one percentage point of combined benefit from foreign currency and acquisitions, offset by the impact of the disposition of our COBRA and CHSA businesses during the nine months ended March 31, 2017. Revenues during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 increased primarily due to new business started from new business bookings. The increase in the consolidated interest earned on funds held for clients resulted from an increase in the average interest rate earned to 1.9% during the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to 1.6% during the three months ended March 31, 2017, coupled with an increase in our average client funds balance of 5.5% to $28.8 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.Total revenues for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 include interest on funds held for clients of $340.9 million, as compared to $292.6 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2017. The increase in the consolidated interest earned on funds held for clients resulted from an increase in the average interest rate earned to 1.9% during the nine months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to 1.7% during the nine months ended March 31, 2017, coupled with an increase in our average client funds balance of 6.2% to $24.1 billion for the nine months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017.Total ExpensesOur total expenses, as reported, increased 10% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase is primarily due to an increase in PEO services pass-through costs and increased costs to service 30our client base in support of our growing revenue. Total expenses also increased due to the impact of foreign currency, charges related to our transformation initiatives, and costs related to acquisitions completed in fiscal 2018.Our total expenses, as reported, increased 9% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase is primarily due to an increase in PEO services pass-through costs, increased costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue, and investments in our sales force. Total expenses also increased due to costs related to acquisitions completed in fiscal 2018, the impact of foreign currency and costs related to proxy contest matters in the nine months ended March 31, 2018. Operating expenses, as reported, increased 8% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Operating expenses include the costs directly attributable to servicing our clients and implementing new business. Also, operating expenses include PEO Services pass-through costs that are re-billable and which include costs for benefits coverage, workers’ compensation coverage, and state unemployment taxes for worksite employees. These pass-through costs were $821.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, which included costs for benefits coverage of $626.4 million and costs for workers' compensation and payment of state unemployment taxes of $195.5 million. These pass-through costs were $746.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, which included costs for benefits coverage of $556.5 million and costs for workers' compensation and payment of state unemployment taxes of $190.2 million. Additionally, operating expenses increased due to higher costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue as well as the impact of foreign currency. Operating expenses, as reported, increased 9% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017. PEO Services pass-through costs were $2,213.5 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2018, which included costs for benefits coverage of $1,828.7 million and costs for workers' compensation and payment of state unemployment taxes of $384.8 million. These pass-through costs were $1,954.5 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2017, which included costs for benefits coverage of $1,600.1 million and costs for workers' compensation and payment of state unemployment taxes of $354.4 million. Additionally, operating expenses increased due to higher costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue as well as the impact of foreign currency. Systems development and programming costs, as reported, increased 6% and 4%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in the prior year, due to increased investments in product innovation and costs to support and maintain our products.Selling, general and administrative expenses, as reported, increased 14% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase was primarily due to charges related to our transformation initiatives and investments in our sales force in the three months ended March 31, 2018.Selling, general and administrative expenses, as reported, increased 9% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017. Overall margin decreased from 24.3% in the three months ended March 31, 2017 to 23.1% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to charges related to our transformation initiatives, the costs related to acquisitions completed in fiscal 2018, and incremental pressure from growth in our pass-through revenues in the three months ended March 31, 2018. These decreases were offset by operational and selling efficiencies in the three months ended March 31, 2018.Earnings before income taxes, as reported, decreased 8% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to the gain on the sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses in the nine months ended March 31, 2017 offset by the increases in revenues and increases in expenses discussed above. Overall margin decreased from 23.0% in the nine months ended March 31, 2017 to 19.7% in the nine months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to the gain on the sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses in the nine months ended March 31, 2017, the costs related to acquisitions completed in fiscal 2018, and incremental pressure from growth in our pass-through revenues in the nine months ended March 31, 2018. These drivers were offset by operational and selling efficiencies in the nine months ended March 31, 2018. Adjusted EBITAdjusted EBIT excludes, as applicable, the impact of the charges related to our transformation initiatives, non-operational costs related to proxy contest matters, and the gain on the sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses in the respective periods for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017.For the three months ended March 31, 2018, adjusted EBIT increased 8% due to the increases in revenues and expenses discussed above. Overall adjusted EBIT margin decreased from 24.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2017 to 24.4% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to the costs related to acquisitions and incremental pressure from growth in our pass-through revenues partially offset by operational and selling efficiencies.For the nine months ended March 31, 2018, adjusted EBIT increased 3% due to the increases in revenues offset by the increases in expenses discussed above. Overall adjusted EBIT margin decreased from 21.6% in the nine months ended March 31, 2017 to 20.7% in the nine months ended March 31, 2018 due to the costs related to acquisitions and incremental pressure from growth in our pass-through revenues partially offset by operational and selling efficiencies.Provision for Income TaxesThe effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was 24.6% and 29.0%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the impacts of the Act, the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions, and the benefit of a tax accounting method change filed with the IRS in the three months ended March 31, 2018, partially offset by the impact of a benefit in the prior period due to tax incentives associated with the domestic production activity deduction and research tax credit. The effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was 23.1% and 31.5%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the impacts of the Act and the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by the impacts in the prior period of the sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses and the impact of a benefit due to tax incentives associated with the domestic production activity deduction and research tax credit. Refer to Note 13, Income Taxes, within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.Adjusted Provision for Income TaxesAdjusted provision for income taxes excludes the impact of, as applicable, the one-time net benefit as a result of the Act, the tax effects of the charges related to our transformation initiatives, non-operational costs related to proxy contest matters and the gain on the sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses in the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017.The adjusted effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was 24.3% and 29.0%, respectively. The decrease in the adjusted effective tax rate is due to the reduction in the blended federal corporate statutory tax rate to 28.1% from 35% as a result of the Act, the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions, and the benefit of a tax accounting method change filed with the IRS in the three months ended March 31, 2018, partially offset by the impact of a benefit due to tax incentives associated with the domestic production activity deduction and research tax credit in the three months ended March 31, 2017.32The adjusted effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was 25.4% and 30.7%, respectively. The decrease in the adjusted effective tax rate is due to the reduction in the blended federal corporate statutory tax rate to 28.1% from 35% as a result of the Act in the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions, offset by the impact of a benefit in the prior period due to tax incentives associated with the domestic production activity deduction and research tax credit.Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings per ShareNet earnings, as reported, increased 9% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to the reduction in our effective tax rate described above combined with the increase in earnings before income taxes when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.Net earnings, as reported, increased 3% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 due to the reduction in our effective tax rate described above partially offset by the decrease in earnings before income taxes when compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017.For the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018, diluted earnings per share reflects the increase in net earnings and the impact of fewer shares outstanding as a result of the repurchase of 5.3 million shares during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and the repurchase of 13.5 million shares in fiscal 2017, offset by shares issued under our employee benefit plans. Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Diluted Earnings per ShareAdjusted net earnings increased 15% and 11% for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018, respectively, when compared to the three months and nine months ended March 31, 2017, respectively, due to the increase in adjusted EBIT combined with the reduction in our adjusted effective tax rate described above.For the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018, adjusted diluted earnings per share reflects the increase in adjusted net earnings and the impact of fewer shares outstanding as a result of the repurchase of 5.3 million shares during the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and the repurchase of 13.5 million shares in fiscal 2017, offset by shares issued under our employee benefit plans. Revenues increased primarily due to new business started from new business bookings. Our revenue growth includes two percentage points of benefit from foreign currency and one percentage point of benefit from the impact of the acquisitions completed in fiscal 2018. Our revenues also benefited from the impact of an increase in the number of employees on our clients’ payrolls as our pays per control increased 2.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Our worldwide client revenue retention rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased 170 basis points compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Employer Services' revenues, as reported, increased 5% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017. Revenues increased primarily due to new business started from new business bookings. Our revenue growth includes two percentage points of combined benefit from foreign currency and acquisitions, partially offset by the impact of the disposition of our COBRA and CHSA businesses during the nine months ended March 31, 2017. Our revenues also benefited from the impact of an increase in the number of employees on our clients’ payrolls as our pays per control increased 2.6% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017. Our worldwide client revenue retention rate for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 increased 100 basis points. This improvement was driven by higher retention on our cloud-based solutions, our focus on improving the client experience, and the loss of a large client within our former CHSA business during the nine months ended March 31, 2017. Earnings before Income TaxesEmployer Services’ earnings before income taxes, as reported, increased 6% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. This increase was due to increased revenues discussed above partially offset by an increase in expenses of $117.4 million, primarily due to investments in implementation and operational resources to support our revenue growth coupled with the impact of foreign currency and costs related to acquisitions completed in fiscal 2018.Employer Services' overall margin decreased from 36.7% to 36.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. This decrease is primarily due to charges related to acquisitions completed in fiscal 2018 offset by operational and selling efficiencies in the three months ended March 31, 2018.Employer Services’ earnings before income taxes, as reported, increased 3% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017. This increase was due to the increased revenues discussed above partially offset by an increase in expenses of $284.9 million, primarily due to investments in implementation and operational resources to support our revenue growth coupled with investments in our sales force in the nine months ended March 31, 2018.34Employer Services' overall margin decreased from 32.0% to 31.4% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017. This decrease is primarily due to the im-pact of the costs related to acquisitions completed in fiscal 2018 offset by operational efficiencies in the nine months ended March 31, 2018. PEO ServicesRevenuesPEO Services' revenues, as reported, increased 10% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Such revenues include pass-through costs of $821.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and $746.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, associated with benefits coverage, workers' compensation coverage, and state unemployment taxes for worksite employees. The increase in revenues was due to a 9% increase in the average number of worksite employees, driven by an increase in the number of new PEO Services clients and growth in our existing clients as well as higher benefit pass-through revenues in our PEO benefit offerings.PEO Services' revenues, as reported, increased 13% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017. Such revenues include pass-through costs of $2,213.5 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and $1,954.5 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2017, associated with benefits coverage, workers' compensation coverage, and state unemployment taxes for worksite employees. The increase in revenues was due to a 10% increase in the average number of worksite employees, driven by an increase in the number of new PEO Services clients and growth in our existing clients as well as higher benefit pass-through revenues in our PEO benefit offerings.Earnings before Income TaxesPEO Services' earnings before income taxes increased 14% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase was due to the increased revenues discussed above, which is partially offset by an increase in expenses of $80.4 million. The increase in expenses is primarily related to an increase in pass-through costs of $75.2 million described above. Overall margin increased from 12.3% to 12.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, due to reductions in selling expense.PEO Services' earnings before income taxes increased 12% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017. The increase was due to the increased revenues discussed above, which is partially offset by an increase in expenses of $288.1 million. The increase in expenses is primarily related to an increase in pass-through costs of $259.0 million described above. Overall margin decreased from 13.2% to 13.1% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2017 due to pressure from growth in our pass-through revenues partially offset by reductions in selling expense.OtherThe primary components of the “Other” segment are non-recurring gains and losses, miscellaneous processing services, the elimination of intercompany transactions, interest expense, the results of operations of ADP Indemnity, certain charges and expenses that have not been allocated to the reportable segments. Changes to the allocation methodology for certain corporate level allocations have been adjusted in both the current period and the prior period in the table above and did not materially affect reportable segment results.ADP Indemnity provides workers' compensation and employer's liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services' worksite employees up to $1 million per occurrence. PEO Services has secured a workers’ compensation and employer’s liability insurance policy that has a $1 million per occurrence retention and, in fiscal years 2012 and prior, aggregate stop loss insurance that covers any aggregate losses within the $1 million retention that collectively exceed a certain level, from an admitted and licensed insurance company of AIG. We utilize historical loss experience and actuarial judgment to determine the estimated claim liability for the PEO Services business. Premiums are charged by ADP Indemnity to PEO Services to cover the claims expected to be incurred by the PEO Services' worksite employees. The premiums charged from ADP Indemnity to PEO Services are eliminated in the Other segment. Changes in estimated ultimate incurred losses are recognized by ADP Indemnity and included in the Other segment. For the fiscal years 2013 to 2018, ADP Indemnity paid premiums to enter into reinsurance arrangements with ACE American Insurance Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chubb Limited, to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity during these policy years. Each of these reinsurance arrangements limits our overall exposure incurred up to a certain limit. We believe the likelihood of ultimate losses exceeding this limit is remote. During the nine months ended March 31, 2018, ADP Indemnity paid a premium of $235.0 million to enter into a reinsurance 35arrangement with Chubb Limited to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for the fiscal 2018 policy year on terms substantially similar to the fiscal 2017 reinsurance policy. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCESFor corporate liquidity, we expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, long-term marketable securities, and cash flow from operations together with our $9.5 billion of committed credit facilities and our ability to access both long-term and short-term debt financing from the capital markets will be adequate to meet our operating, investing, and financing activities such as our regular quarterly dividends, share repurchases, and capital expenditures. Additionally, we will benefit from the Act which offers us additional financial flexibility. Our estimated fiscal 2018 adjusted effective tax rate is 26.2% and we anticipate a future adjusted effective tax rate, excluding one time items, of 25% to 26% beyond fiscal 2018. For client funds liquidity, we have the ability to borrow through our financing arrangements under our U.S. short-term commercial paper program and our U.S. and Canadian short-term reverse repurchase agreements together with our $9.5 billion of committed credit facilities and our ability to use corporate liquidity when necessary to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. Please see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" for a further discussion of the risks of our client funds investment strategy. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our short-term financing including commercial paper. 36We purchased 5.3 million shares of our common stock at an average price per share of $110.79 during the nine months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to purchases of 10.4 million shares at an average price per share of $92.49 during the nine months ended March 31, 2017. From time to time, the Company may repurchase shares of its common stock under its authorized share repurchase programs. The Company considers several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, actual and potential acquisition activity, cash balances and cash flows, issuances due to employee benefit plan activity, and market conditions.Capital Resources and Client Funds ObligationsIn September 2015, we issued $2.0 billion of senior unsecured notes with maturity dates in 2020 and 2025. We may from time to time revisit the long-term debt market to refinance existing debt, finance investments including acquisitions for our growth, and maintain the appropriate capital structure. However, there can be no assurance that volatility in the global capital and credit markets would not impair our ability to access these markets on terms acceptable to us, or at all. See Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our long-term financing including this debt issuance.Our U.S. short-term funding requirements related to client funds are sometimes obtained on an unsecured basis through the issuance of commercial paper, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. This commercial paper program provides for the issuance of up to $9.5 billion in aggregate maturity value. These ratings denote the highest quality commercial paper securities. Maturities of commercial paper can range from overnight to up to 364 days. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, our average daily borrowings were $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 1.5% and 0.7%, respectively. For the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, our average daily borrowings were $2.8 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 1.2% and 0.5%, respectively. The weighted average maturity of our commercial paper during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 was approximately one day and two days, respectively. At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2017, we had no outstanding obligations under our short-term commercial paper program.Our U.S. and Canadian short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations are sometimes obtained on a secured basis through the use of reverse repurchase agreements, which are collateralized principally by government and government agency securities, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. These agreements generally have terms ranging from overnight to up to five business days. We have successfully borrowed through the use of reverse repurchase agreements on an as-needed basis to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2017, there were no outstanding obligations related to the reverse repurchase agreements. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we had average outstanding balances under reverse repurchase agreements of $99.0 million and $145.0 million, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 1.2% and 0.5%, respectively. For the nine months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we had average outstanding balances under reverse repurchase agreements of $389.5 million and $258.1 million, respectively, at weighted average interest rates of 1.1% and 0.5%, respectively. See Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for client fund investments used as collateral for reverse repurchase agreements. We vary the maturities of our committed credit facilities to limit the refinancing risk of any one facility. We have a $3.5 billion, 364-day credit agreement that matures in June 2018 with a one year term-out option. In addition, we have a five-year $2.25 billion credit facility and a five-year $3.75 billion credit facility maturing in June 2022 and June 2021, respectively, each with an accordion feature under which the aggregate commitment can be increased by $500.0 million, subject to the availability of additional commitments. The primary uses of the credit facilities are to provide liquidity to the commercial paper program and funding for general corporate purposes, if necessary. We had no borrowings through March 31, 2018 under the credit facilities. We believe that we currently meet all conditions set forth in the revolving credit agreements to borrow thereunder and we are not aware of any conditions that would prevent us from borrowing part or all of the $9.5 billion available to us under the revolving credit agreements. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our short-term financing including credit facilities.Our investment portfolio does not contain any asset-backed securities with underlying collateral of sub-prime mortgages, alternative-A mortgages, sub-prime auto loans or sub-prime home equity loans, collateralized debt obligations, collateralized loan obligations, credit default swaps, derivatives, auction rate securities, structured investment vehicles or non-investment grade fixed-income securities. We own AAA rated senior tranches of fixed rate credit card, auto loan, equipment lease and rate reduction receivables, secured predominantly by prime collateral. All collateral on asset-backed securities is performing as expected. In addition, we own senior debt directly issued by Federal Home Loan Banks and Federal Farm Credit Banks. This investment strategy is supported by our short-term financing arrangements necessary to satisfy short-term funding requirements relating to client funds obligations. See Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our corporate investments and funds held for clients.Capital expenditures for the nine months ended March 31, 2018 were $143.4 million, as compared to $180.2 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2017. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2018 are expected to be about $200 million, as compared to $249.1 million in fiscal 2017. All of our long-term fixed-income securities are classified as available-for-sale securities.Our client funds assets are invested with safety of principal, liquidity, and diversification as the primary objectives. Consistent with those objectives, we also seek to maximize interest income and to minimize the volatility of interest income. Client funds assets are invested in highly liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, with a maximum maturity of 10 years at the time of purchase, and money market securities and other cash equivalents. We utilize a strategy by which we extend the maturities of our investment portfolio for funds held for clients and employ short-term financing arrangements to satisfy our short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. As part of our client funds investment strategy, we use the daily collection of funds from our clients to satisfy other unrelated client funds obligations, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. We minimize the risk of not having funds collected from a client available at the time such client’s obligation becomes due by impounding, in virtually all instances, the client’s funds in advance of the timing of payment of such client’s obligation. As a result of this practice, we have consistently maintained the required level of client funds assets to satisfy all of our obligations.There are inherent risks and uncertainties involving our investment strategy relating to our client funds assets. Such risks include liquidity risk, including the risk associated with our ability to liquidate, if necessary, our available-for-sale securities in a timely manner in order to satisfy our client funds obligations. However, our investments are made with the safety of principal, liquidity, and diversification as the primary goals to minimize the risk of not having sufficient funds to satisfy all of our client funds obligations. The reduced availability of financing during periods of economic turmoil, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings, may limit our ability to access short-term debt markets to meet the liquidity needs of our business. In addition to liquidity risk, our investments are subject to interest rate risk and credit risk, as discussed below.We have established credit quality, maturity, and exposure limits for our investments. The minimum allowed credit rating at time of purchase for corporate, Canadian government agency and Canadian provincial bonds is BBB, for asset-backed securities is AAA, and for municipal bonds is A. The maximum maturity at time of purchase for BBB rated securities is 5 years, for single A rated securities is 7 years, and for AA rated and AAA rated securities is 10 years. Factors that influence the earnings impact of interest rate changes include, among others, the amount of invested funds and the overall portfolio mix between short-term and long-term investments. This mix varies during the fiscal year and is impacted by daily interest rate changes. The annualized interest rates earned on our entire portfolio increased from 1.6% for the nine months ended March 31, 2017 to 1.8% for the nine months ended March 31, 2018. A hypothetical change in only short-term interest rates of 25 basis points applied to the estimated average short-term investment balances and any related short-term borrowings would result in approximately a $4 million impact to earnings before income taxes over the ensuing twelve-month period ending March 31, 2019. We are exposed to credit risk in connection with our available-for-sale securities through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the securities. Approximately 80% of our available-for-sale securities held a AAA or AA rating at March 31, 2018. In addition, we limit amounts that can be invested in any security other than U.S. government and government agency, Canadian government, and United Kingdom government securities.We operate and transact business in various foreign jurisdictions and are therefore exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. We manage our exposure to these market risks through our regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We may use derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading purposes. We had a derivative financial instrument outstanding at March 31, 2018 to hedge exposure to an intercompany dividend payable in a foreign currency. This instrument was subsequently settled in April 2018 for an amount not material to our financial statements. We had no derivative financial instruments outstanding at June 30, 2017. 39NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTSSee Note 2, New Accounting Pronouncements, of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskThe information called for by this item is provided under the caption "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" under Item 2 – Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Item 4. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. OTHER INFORMATIONExcept as noted below, all other items are either inapplicable or would result in negative responses and, therefore, have been omitted.Item 1. Legal ProceedingsIn the normal course of business, the Company is subject to various claims and litigation. While the outcome of any litigation is inherently unpredictable, the Company believes it has valid defenses with respect to the legal matters pending against it and the Company believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.Item 1A. Risk FactorsThere have been no material changes in our risk factors disclosed in Part 1, Item 1A, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.40Item 2. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.2Certification by Jan Siegmund pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 101.INSXBRL instance document 101.SCHXBRL taxonomy extension schema document 101.CALXBRL taxonomy extension calculation linkbase document 101.LABXBRL taxonomy label linkbase document 101.PREXBRL taxonomy extension presentation linkbase document 101.DEFXBRL taxonomy extension definition linkbase document42SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.