See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. As of August 15, 2018, there were 259,268,252 shares of the registrant’s common stock, $0.001 par value, outstanding. Together with our partners, we provide a full range of enterprise-class software, systems and services solutions that customers use to modernize their infrastructures, build next generation data centers and harness the power of hybrid clouds. An additional week is included in the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years to realign fiscal months with calendar months. Fiscal years 2019 and 2018, ending on April 26, 2019, and April 27, 2018, respectively, are each 52-week years, with 13 weeks in each of their quarters. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company, and reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income and cash flows for the interim periods presented. Accordingly, these statements do not include all information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual consolidated financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2018 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results of operations for the three months ended July 27, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for the full fiscal year or future operating periods. The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. In the three months ended July 27, 2018, we adopted this new standard using the full retrospective method of adoption. Accordingly, our prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and information, as presented herein, have been restated to conform to the new rules. Refer to Note 6 – Revenue for a summary of the impacts of adopting this standard, and a discussion of our updated policies related to revenue recognition. As a result, tax expense from the sale of an asset in the seller’s tax jurisdiction is recognized when the transfer occurs, even though the pre-tax effects of that transaction are eliminated in consolidation. In the three months ended July 27, 2018, we adopted this ASU using a modified retrospective transition approach and recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings by $51 million, with a corresponding reduction of prepaid taxes, which were classified as other non-current assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, as of the beginning of the period. In November 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that requires a statement of cash flows to explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents. In the three months ended July 27, 2018, we adopted this ASU using a retrospective transition method. Accordingly, our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended July 28, 2017, as presented herein, has been restated to comply with the new requirements. Refer to Note 5 – Supplemental Financial Information for a detail of the components of our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash balances. There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the three months ended July 27, 2018, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2018. Recent Accounting Standards Not Yet Effective
Leases
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on financial reporting for leasing arrangements, including requiring lessees to recognize an operating lease with a term greater than one year on their balance sheets as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020, although early adoption is permitted. We are currently in the assessment phase to determine the adoption methodology and are evaluating the impact of this new standard on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. We expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will increase the total assets and total liabilities we report. Credit Losses on Financial Instruments
In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. The standard introduces a new model for measuring and recognizing credit losses on financial instruments, requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, companies must apply a modified retrospective transition approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings, though a prospective transition approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date. Based on the composition of our investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 3. The remaining properties, consisting of land with a net book value of $52 million, were classified as assets held for sale, and included as other current assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018. We will consummate the sale of these properties, and receive cash proceeds of $96 million, upon the completion of the second closing, which is expected to occur within the next 12 months. That closing is subject to due diligence, certain termination rights and customary closing conditions, including local governmental approval of the subdivision of a land parcel. The most significant impact of the new standard relates to our accounting for arrangements containing software. Under the prior rules, the software license fee was recognized over the term of the enterprise license based on our inability to establish vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for the undelivered software support element of these arrangements. In addition, for other software arrangements, revenue deferred for the undelivered elements that was previously allocated based on the residual method is now allocated based on relative fair value, which generally results in more software arrangement revenue being recognized earlier. The new standard also impacts our estimation of variable consideration for certain arrangements with contract terms such as rights of return, potential penalties and acceptance clauses. The core principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This principle is achieved through applying the following five-step approach. We also combine two or more contracts entered into at or near the same time with the same customer as a single contract if the contracts are negotiated as one package with a single commercial objective, the amount of consideration to be paid on one contract depends on the price or performance of the other contract or if the goods and services promised in each of the contracts are a single performance obligation. A good or service is distinct if it is capable of being distinct, where the customer can benefit from the goods or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and is distinct in the context of the contract, meaning the transfer of the goods or services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. To the extent a contract includes multiple promised goods or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct and distinct in the context of the contract. If these criteria are not met, we combine the goods and services until we have a distinct performance obligation. Consideration promised may include fixed amounts, variable amounts or both. We use judgment in determining variable consideration, particularly if consideration is contingent on the occurrence or nonoccurrence of a future event. We use the expected value, primarily relying on our history, to estimate variable consideration. We may also use, in certain situations, the most likely amount as the basis of our estimate. In either case, we consider variable consideration only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. Reassessments of our variable consideration may occur as historical information changes. Transaction prices should also be adjusted for the effects of time value of money if the timing of payments provides either the customer or ourselves a significant benefit of financing. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price basis. We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations. Variable consideration is also allocated to the performance obligations. If the terms of variable consideration relate to one performance obligation, it is entirely allocated to that obligation. Otherwise, it is allocated to all the performance obligations in the contract. We typically recognize revenue at a point in time for promises to transfer goods to a customer. Services are typically transferred over time based on an appropriate method for measuring our progress toward completion of that performance obligation. Our stand-ready services, including both hardware and software maintenance support, are transferred ratably over the period of the contract. For other services such as our fixed professional services contract, we use an input method to determine the percentage of completion. That is, we estimate the effort to date versus the expected effort required over the life of the contract. Strategic solutions include Clustered ONTAP, branded E-Series, SolidFire, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure, ELAs and other optional add-on software products. Both our Mature and Strategic product lines include a mix of disk, hybrid and all flash storage media. Additionally, we provide a variety of services including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training. Deferred services revenue represents customer payments made in advance for services, which include software and hardware maintenance contracts and other services. Financed unearned services revenue represents undelivered services for which cash has been received under certain third-party financing arrangements. See Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies for additional information related to these arrangements. As of July 27, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations related to customer contracts that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied was $3,260 million, which is equivalent to our deferred revenue and unearned services revenue balance. We expect to recognize as revenue approximately 50% of our deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue balance in the next 12 months, approximately 26% in the next 13 to 24 months, and the remainder thereafter. Capitalized commissions are amortized based on the transfer of goods or services to which they relate, typically over one to three years, and are also periodically reviewed for impairment. Amortization expense is recorded to sales and marketing expense in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. These assumptions are required to be consistent with market participant assumptions that are reasonably available. We consider an active market to be one in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis, and consider an inactive market to be one in which there are infrequent or few transactions for the asset or liability, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers. Where appropriate, our own or the counterparty’s non-performance risk is considered in measuring the fair values of liabilities and assets, respectively. These pricing providers utilize the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available for these securities, use other observable inputs like market transactions involving identical or comparable securities. We review Level 2 inputs and fair value for reasonableness and the values may be further validated by comparison to multiple independent pricing sources. As of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018, we have not made any adjustments to the prices obtained from our third-party pricing providers. The fair value of our long-term debt was based on observable market prices in a less active market. The fair value of our commercial paper notes approximated their carrying value. All of our debt obligations are categorized as Level 2 instruments. Interest on these Senior Notes is paid semi-annually in March and September. Our 3.375% Senior Notes and 3.25% Senior Notes, with principal amounts of $500 million and $250 million, respectively, were issued in June 2014 and December 2012, respectively. Interest on these Senior Notes is paid semi-annually in June and December. Our Senior Notes, which are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations, rank equally in right of payment with any existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. We may redeem the Senior Notes in whole or in part, at any time at our option at specified redemption prices. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain change of control triggering events, we may be required to repurchase the Senior Notes under specified terms. The Senior Notes also include covenants that limit our ability to incur debt secured by liens on assets or on shares of stock or indebtedness of our subsidiaries; to engage in certain sale and lease-back transactions; and to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. As of July 27, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants associated with the Senior Notes. Amounts available under the Program, as amended in July 2017, may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed, with the aggregate face or principal amount of the notes outstanding under the Program at any time not to exceed $1.0 billion. The maturities of the notes can vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The notes are sold under customary terms in the commercial paper market and may be issued at a discount from par or, alternatively, may be sold at par and bear interest at rates dictated by market conditions at the time of their issuance. The proceeds from the issuance of the notes are used for general corporate purposes. As of July 27, 2018, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $200 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 2.28% and maturities ranging from 14 days to 31 days. As of April 27, 2018, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $385 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 2.29% and maturities ranging from 19 days to 32 days. In connection with the Program, we have a senior unsecured credit agreement with a syndicated group of lenders that expires on December 10, 2021. The credit agreement, as amended in July 2017, provides a $1.0 billion revolving unsecured credit facility, with a $50 million letter of credit sub-facility, that serves as a back-up for the Program. Proceeds from the facility may also be used for general corporate purposes to the extent that the credit facility exceeds the outstanding debt issued under the Program. The credit agreement includes options that allow us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $300 million and to extend its maturity date for two additional one-year periods, both subject to certain conditions. As of July 27, 2018 we were in compliance with all associated covenants in this agreement. No amounts were drawn against this facility during any of the periods presented. 10. Each PBRSU has performance-based vesting criteria, in addition to the service based vesting criteria, such that the PBRSUs cliff-vest at the end of an approximate three year performance period, which began on the date specified in the grant agreements and ends the last day of fiscal 2021. The number of shares of common stock that will be issued to settle the PBRSUs at the end of the applicable performance and service period will range from 0% to 200% of a target number of shares originally granted. The fair values of these awards were fixed at grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The fair values of these awards were established consistent with our methodology for valuing time-based RSUs, while compensation cost is being recognized based on the probable outcome of the performance condition. Under this program, which we may suspend or discontinue at any time, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, through accelerated share repurchase programs, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan or in such other manner as deemed appropriate by our management. Since the May 13, 2003 inception of our stock repurchase program through July 27, 2018, we repurchased a total of 291 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $34.79 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $10.1 billion. The timing and amount of future dividends will depend on market conditions, corporate business and financial considerations and regulatory requirements. All dividends declared have been determined by us to be legally authorized under the laws of the state in which we are incorporated. Refer to Note 1 – Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies for details. 11. Derivatives and Hedging Activities
We use derivative instruments to manage exposures to foreign currency risk. Our primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The program is not designated for trading or speculative purposes. Our derivatives expose us to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of our agreements with them. We seek to mitigate such risk by limiting our counterparties to major financial institutions. In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. We also have in place master netting arrangements to mitigate the credit risk of our counterparties and to potentially reduce our losses due to counterparty nonperformance. We present our derivative instruments as net amounts in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The gross and net fair value amounts of such instruments were not material as of July 27, 2018 or April 27, 2018. We did not recognize any gains or losses in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness for any period presented. All contracts have a maturity of less than six months. Charges related to the plan consisted primarily of employee severance-related costs. We expect to complete the May 2018 Plan by the second quarter of fiscal 2019 with no significant additional charges incurred. Management previously approved the November 2016 Plan, under which we reduced our global workforce by approximately 6%. We completed all workforce related activities under this plan as of the end of fiscal 2017. The remaining balance as of July 27, 2018 principally relates to lease obligations that will be paid over their remaining terms. The differences in effective tax rates for the three months ended July 27, 2018 and July 28, 2017 were primarily related to the adoption of the new revenue standard and differences in discrete benefits for stock-based compensation. The effective tax rate for the three months ended July 28, 2017 has been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue standard. During the three months ended July 27, 2018, we recognized a $34 million discrete tax benefit for adjustments to certain intercompany transactions resulting from the retrospective application of the new standard. See Note 6 – Revenue for additional details. As of July 27, 2018, we have not fully completed the accounting for the tax impacts of the TCJA. No significant adjustments to prior period estimates or positions have been made in the current period. The provisional amounts recorded are based on reasonable estimates and our current interpretation and understanding of the TCJA. The final impacts of U.S. tax reform may differ, possibly materially, due to factors such as the issuance of further regulatory guidance, changes in interpretations, and the collection and analysis of additional information. For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we have accounted for the GMT under a period cost method as we continue to evaluate potential impacts. In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, we will complete the accounting of the tax effects of the TCJA within the measurement period not to extend beyond one year from the enactment date. As of July 27, 2018, we had $351 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits. Inclusive of penalties, interest and certain income tax benefits, $301 million would affect our provision for income taxes if recognized, and $319 million has been recorded in other long-term liabilities. We are currently undergoing federal income tax audits in the U.S. and several foreign tax jurisdictions. Transfer pricing calculations are key issues under audits in various jurisdictions, and are often subject to dispute and appeals. The IRS has concluded the examination of our tax returns for our fiscal years through 2010. The IRS commenced the examination of our federal income tax returns for our fiscal years 2012 and 2013 in August 2016. In September 2010, the Danish Tax Authorities issued a decision concluding that distributions declared in 2005 and 2006 by our Danish subsidiary were subject to Danish at-source dividend withholding tax. We do not believe that our Danish subsidiary is liable for such withholding tax and filed an appeal with the Danish Tax Tribunal. In December 2011, the Danish Tax Tribunal issued a ruling in favor of NetApp. Parties were heard before the court in October 2017. During March 2018, the Advocate General issued an opinion which was largely in favor of NetApp, however, the CJEU is not bound by the opinion of the Advocate General. It is expected that the preliminary ruling will be issued during our fiscal year 2019. Once a ruling has been issued by the CJEU, it will be reviewed and may be subjected to additional briefing by the DHC. Once complete, the DHC will issue its final decision. We expect this decision to be complete during our fiscal year 2019 or 2020. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude, certain statutes of limitations will lapse, or both. As a result of uncertainties regarding tax audits and their possible outcomes, an estimate of the range of possible impacts to unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months cannot be made at this time. 14. For the three months ended July 28, 2017, 2 million potential shares from outstanding awards were excluded from the calculation as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. We conduct business globally, and our sales and support activities are managed on a geographic basis. Our management reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis, accompanied by disaggregated information it receives from our internal management system about revenues by geographic region, based on the location from which the customer relationship is managed, for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. We do not allocate costs of revenues, research and development, sales and marketing, or general and administrative expenses to our geographic regions in this internal management reporting because management does not review operations or operating results, or make planning decisions, below the consolidated entity level. Sales to customers inside the U.S. were $761 million and $639 million during the three months ended July 27, 2018 and July 28, 2017, respectively. The majority of our assets, excluding cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and accounts receivable, were attributable to our domestic operations. Future annual minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year totaled $184 million as of July 27, 2018. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional commitments. As of July 27, 2018, we had $382 million in non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory. We record a liability for firm, non-cancelable and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018, such liability amounted to $22 million and $14 million, respectively, and is included in accrued expenses in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. To the extent that such forecasts are not achieved, our commitments and associated accruals may change. In addition to inventory commitments with contract manufacturers and component suppliers, we have open purchase orders and contractual obligations associated with our ordinary course of business for which we have not yet received goods or services. As of July 27, 2018, we had $5 million in construction related obligations and $195 million in other purchase obligations. We have generally sold receivables financed through these arrangements on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions within 10 days of the contracts’ dates of execution, and we classify the proceeds from these sales as cash flows from operating activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. We account for the sales of these receivables as “true sales” as defined in the accounting standards on transfers of financial assets, as we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize product revenues for these arrangements, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions, upon product acceptance. We sold $30 million and $31 million of receivables during the three months ended July 27, 2018 and July 28, 2017, respectively. In addition, we enter into arrangements with leasing companies for the sale of our hardware systems products. These leasing companies, in turn, lease our products to end-users. The leasing companies generally have no recourse to us in the event of default by the end-user and we recognize revenue upon delivery to the end-user customer, if all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Some of the leasing arrangements described above have been financed on a recourse basis through third-party financing institutions. Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. These arrangements are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Where we provide a guarantee for recourse leases, we recognize revenues in accordance with our revenue recognition policy, as updated to reflect the adoption of ASC 606. In connection with certain recourse financing arrangements, we receive advance payments associated with undelivered elements that are subject to customer refund rights. We defer revenue associated with these advance payments until the related refund rights expire and we perform the services. As of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018, the aggregate amount by which such contingencies exceeded the associated liabilities was not significant. To date, we have not experienced significant losses under our lease financing programs or other financing arrangements. We have entered into service contracts with certain of our end-user customers that are supported by third-party financing arrangements. If a service contract is terminated as a result of our non-performance under the contract or our failure to comply with the terms of the financing arrangement, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to acquire certain assets related to the service contract or to pay the aggregate unpaid financing payments under such arrangements. As of July 27, 2018, we have not been required to make any payments under these arrangements, and we believe the likelihood of having to acquire a material amount of assets or make payments under these arrangements is remote. The portion of the financial arrangement that represents unearned services revenue is included in deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. However, the likelihood of a loss with respect to a particular contingency is often difficult to predict and determining a meaningful estimate of the loss or a range of loss may not be practicable based on the information available and the potential effect of future events and decisions by third parties that will determine the ultimate resolution of the contingency. We may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing third parties’ intellectual property rights, including claims for alleged patent infringement brought by non-practicing entities. We are currently involved in patent litigations brought by non-practicing entities and other third parties. However, there is no guarantee that we will prevail at trial and if a jury were to find that our products infringe, we could be required to pay significant monetary damages, and may cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Although management at present believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not materially harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or overall trends, legal proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings or other events could occur. Unfavorable resolutions could include significant monetary damages. In addition, in matters for which injunctive relief or other conduct remedies are sought, unfavorable resolutions could include an injunction or other order prohibiting us from selling one or more products at all or in particular ways or requiring other remedies. An unfavorable outcome may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. No material accrual has been recorded as of July 27, 2018 related to such matters. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This section and other parts of this Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements also can be identified by words such as “future,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “may,” and similar terms. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q under the heading “Risk Factors,” which are incorporated herein by reference. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2018, and the notes thereto, contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Digital transformation remains top of mind for executives. In order to successfully digitally transform, data must become the lifeblood of an organization and be used as a business accelerator. Data-driven digital transformations accelerate business outcomes. Together with our partners, we empower global organizations to unleash the full potential of their data to enable new customer touchpoints, create innovative business opportunities and optimize operations. NetApp delivers a Data Fabric built for the data-driven world. Our Data Fabric simplifies and integrates data management across clouds and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation, enabling our customers to manage, secure and protect their data at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world. It delivers integrated data management services and applications for data visibility and insights, data access and control, and data protection and security. We focus on delivering an exceptional customer experience to become our customers’ preferred data partner. NetApp’s unique approach to managing data holistically enables organizations to inspire innovation with the cloud, build clouds to accelerate new services, and modernize IT architecture with cloud-connected flash. Customers are attracted by the speed and scale benefits of the public cloud but need new data management capabilities to keep control of data as it moves beyond the walls of the enterprise. NetApp believes the hybrid cloud is fast becoming the dominant model for enterprise IT. Whether an organization is targeting an all-cloud, hybrid cloud, or multi-cloud strategy, NetApp Cloud Data Services accelerate the time it takes to deploy or develop an application by making the data requirements seamless to the application layer. Budget constraints and skill imbalances lead our customers to seek help in integrating, deploying and managing the solutions they need to stay competitive. This drives demand for converged and hyper-converged infrastructure solutions. FlexPod is the converged infrastructure of choice for many of the largest enterprises around the globe. Customers can break free from the limits of first-generation HCI with NetApp HCI and attain guaranteed performance with high levels flexibility, scale, automation, and integration with the Data Fabric. Flash plays a key role in customers’ digital transformation efforts as they seek to gain advantage through greater speed, responsiveness and value from key business applications - all while lowering total cost of ownership. All-flash array technology is the de facto choice for primary application workloads as customers seek performance and economic benefits from replacing hard disk installations. With a highly differentiated and broad portfolio of all-flash and hybrid array offerings, NetApp is well positioned to enable customers to accomplish this transition. To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we group our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions. Both our Mature and Strategic product lines include a mix of disk, hybrid and all flash storage media. Additionally, we provide a variety of services including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training to help customers most effectively manage their data. Revenues generated by our Cloud Data Services offerings are included in software maintenance revenues. We also declared cash dividends of $0.40 per share in that period, for which we paid an aggregate of $105 million. Accordingly, our prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and supplementary data, as presented herein, have been restated to conform to the new rules. As illustrated in Note 6 – Revenue of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the overall impact of adoption was not significant to prior periods. However, application of the new rules to our ELAs resulted in approximately $90 million of product revenues for such arrangements in the first three months of fiscal 2019 that are incremental to the amount we would have recognized under the old standard. Under ASC 606, we recognize the software license fee component of our ELAs up-front, whereas under the prior rules the software license fee was recognized over the term of the ELA. Restructuring Event
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we announced a restructuring and reduction in workforce to reduce costs and redirect resources to our highest return activities. In connection with this action, we reduced our worldwide headcount by less than 2%, and incurred aggregate charges of approximately $19 million, consisting primarily of employee severance costs. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. We believe that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may be material. The summary of our significant accounting policies is included under Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, if different estimates reasonably could have been used, or if changes in the estimate that are reasonably possible could materially impact the financial statements. There have been no material changes to the critical accounting policies and estimates as filed in such report, except with respect to revenue recognition as a result of the adoption of ASC 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Refer to Note 6 – Revenue of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details. Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 are each 52-week years, with 13 weeks in each of their quarters. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months and periods refer to the Company’s fiscal years ended in April and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by three percentage points, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, reflecting higher margins on product revenues. Sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 totaled $690 million. This represented 47% of net revenues, a decrease of five percentage points compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher net revenues in the current quarter. Product revenues as a percentage of net revenues increased four percentage points in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018. Product revenues from strategic solutions represented 70% of product revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 69% in the corresponding period of the prior year. Product revenues from mature solutions represented 30% of product revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 31% in the corresponding period of the prior year. Total product revenues from strategic solutions totaled $612 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 reflecting a 23% increase from $498 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. This increase was primarily due to over $90 million of current quarter revenues from the software license component of several ELAs, which, under ASC 606, were recognized up-front. There were no comparable ELAs in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. An increase in ASP, driven by the sales of our All-Flash FAS products, also contributed to the increase in revenues in the current quarter. Total product revenue from mature solutions totaled $263 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, an increase of 15% from $229 million in in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, attributable to a 17% increase in add-on hardware, storage and related OS revenues and a 49% increase in OEM revenues. As of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we are no longer selling 7-mode systems, reflecting the movement of customers to our newer products. The fluctuations in software maintenance revenues reflect fluctuations in the aggregate contract value of the installed base under software maintenance contracts, which is recognized as revenue ratably over the terms of the underlying contracts. Hardware maintenance contract revenues were relatively flat year over year, at $303 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $298 million for the corresponding period of the prior year. Professional services and educational and training services revenues were $67 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $73 million for the corresponding period of the prior year. Our geographic distribution of revenues as a percentage of net revenues was relatively consistent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Materials costs represented 87% of product costs for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 88% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Materials costs increased $16 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, primarily due to higher unit volumes of All-Flash FAS products. Average unit materials costs for Clustered ONTAP systems increased by 15% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. Margins for mature products were relatively consistent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. Costs represented 29% of hardware maintenance and other services revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 31% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Included in compensation costs are salaries, benefits, other compensation-related costs, stock-based compensation expense and employee incentive compensation plan costs. Total compensation costs included in operating expenses increased by $5 million, or 1% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, primarily reflecting higher salaries as a result of merit increases, partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense. Average headcount was relatively consistent in both periods. Facilities and IT support costs decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year primarily due to cost containment efforts. Commissions expense was relatively consistent in both quarters. Development projects and outside services increased as a result of higher spending on materials and services associated with engineering activities to develop new products and enhance existing products. Depreciation expense decreased primarily due to certain equipment becoming fully depreciated. The increase in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due higher spending levels on projects and outside services, and an increase in spending on IT projects. Compensation costs were relatively consistent in both quarters. Charges related to the plan consisted primarily of employee severance-related costs. We expect to complete the May 2018 Plan by the second quarter of fiscal 2019 with no significant additional charges incurred. See Note 12 – Restructuring Charges of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more details. Our effective tax rates reflect the impact of a significant amount of our earnings, primarily income from our European operations which are headquartered in the Netherlands, being taxed in foreign jurisdictions at rates below the U.S. statutory tax rate. Our effective tax rate decreased for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year primarily due to the recognition of a $34 million discrete tax benefit for adjustments to certain intercompany transactions resulting from the retrospective application of the new revenue standard, and increased discrete benefits for stock-based compensation. The TCJA made significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system including a reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the imposition of a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings, and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. As of July 27, 2018, we have not fully completed the accounting for the tax impacts of the TCJA. No significant adjustments to prior period estimates or positions have been made in the current period. The provisional amounts recorded are based on reasonable estimates and our current interpretation and understanding of the TCJA. The final impacts of U.S. tax reform may differ, possibly materially, due to factors such as the issuance of further regulatory guidance, changes in interpretations, and the collection and analysis of additional information. For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we have accounted for the GMT under a period cost method as we continue to evaluate potential impacts. In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, we will complete the accounting of the tax effects of the TCJA within the measurement period not to extend beyond one year from the enactment date. As of July 27, 2018, we had $351 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits. Inclusive of penalties, interest and certain income tax benefits, $301 million would affect our provision for income taxes if recognized, and $319 million has been recorded in other long-term liabilities. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude, certain statutes of limitations will lapse, or both. As a result of uncertainties regarding tax audits and their possible outcomes, an estimate of the range of possible impacts to unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months cannot be made at this time. The decrease was primarily due to $500 million paid for the repurchase of our common stock, $105 million used for the payment of dividends, $185 million used for the net repayment of commercial paper notes, and $64 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $326 million of cash provided by operating activities. Working capital decreased by $0.4 billion to $3.0 billion as of July 27, 2018 compared to April 27, 2018 primarily due to a decrease in accounts receivable, and decreases in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as discussed above, partially offset by decreases in accounts payable and accrued expenses. DSO is based on ending accounts receivable and net revenue for each period. DSO for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was relatively consistent with the corresponding period of fiscal 2018, while it decreased compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 due to lower seasonal invoicing levels and more favorable shipping linearity. DIO is based on ending inventory and cost of revenues for each period. DIO is calculated by dividing ending inventory by average cost of revenues per day for the current quarter. DIO for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was relatively consistent with the fourth quarter of 2018, while it decreased compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018, primarily due to lower levels of purchased components on hand at the end of the current quarter. DPO is based on ending accounts payable and cost of revenues for each period. DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by average cost of revenues per day for the current quarter. DPO for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018, primarily as a result of improved vendor payables management and an extension of payment terms with our suppliers. DPO for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared to the fourth quarter of 2018, primarily due to the timing of purchases from contract manufacturers. Key factors that could affect our cash flows include changes in our revenue mix and profitability, our ability to effectively manage our working capital, in particular, accounts receivable, accounts payable and inventories, the timing and amount of stock repurchases and payment of cash dividends, the impact of foreign exchange rate changes, our ability to effectively integrate acquired products, businesses and technologies and the timing of repayments of our debt. Based on past performance and our current business outlook, we believe that our sources of liquidity, including potential future issuances of debt, equity or other securities, will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on our debt and other liquidity requirements associated with operations and meet our cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, in the event our liquidity is insufficient, we may be required to curtail spending and implement additional cost saving measures and restructuring actions or enter into new financing arrangements. We cannot be certain that we will continue to generate cash flows at or above current levels or that we will be able to obtain additional financing, if necessary, on satisfactory terms, if at all. The TCJA imposes a one-time transition tax on substantially all accumulated foreign earnings through December 31, 2017, and generally allows companies to make distributions of foreign earnings without incurring additional federal taxes. As a part of the provisional estimates recorded for the impacts of the TCJA, we have reviewed our projected global cash requirements and have determined that certain historical and future foreign earnings will no longer be indefinitely reinvested. Our principal liquidity requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support ongoing business activities, fund research and development, meet capital expenditure needs, invest in critical or complementary technologies, service interest and principal payments on our debt, fund our stock repurchase program, and pay dividends, as and if declared. The principal objectives of our investment policy are the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. We attempt to mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time to maturity and monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. We believe our cash equivalents and short-term investments are liquid and accessible. We are not aware of any significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or investments from the values reported as of July 27, 2018. Our investment portfolio has been and will continue to be exposed to market risk due to trends in the credit and capital markets. We continue to closely monitor current economic and market events to minimize the market risk of our investment portfolio. We routinely monitor our financial exposure to both sovereign and non-sovereign borrowers and counterparties. We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed. We may in the future offer an additional unspecified amount of debt, equity and other securities. For further information on the underlying terms, see Note 9 – Financing Arrangements of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Amounts available under the Program may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed, with the aggregate face or principal amount of the notes outstanding under the Program at any time not to exceed $1.0 billion. The maturities of the notes can vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The notes are sold under customary terms in the commercial paper market and may be issued at a discount from par or, alternatively, may be sold at par and bear interest at rates dictated by market conditions at the time of their issuance. The proceeds from the issuance of the notes are used for general corporate purposes. As of July 27, 2018, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $200 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 2.28% and maturities ranging from 14 days to 31 days. In connection with the Program, we have a senior unsecured credit agreement that expires on December 10, 2021. The credit agreement provides a $1.0 billion revolving unsecured credit facility that serves as a back-up for the Program. Proceeds from the facility may also be used for general corporate purposes, providing another potential source of liquidity to the extent that the credit facility exceeds the outstanding debt issued under the Program. The credit agreement also includes options that allow us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $300 million and to extend its maturity date for two additional one-year periods, both subject to certain conditions. As of July 27, 2018, we were in compliance with all associated covenants in this agreement. No amounts were drawn against this facility during any of the periods presented. The timing and amount of our capital requirements cannot be precisely determined and will depend on a number of factors, including future demand for products, changes in the network storage industry, hiring plans and our decisions related to the financing of our facilities and equipment requirements. We anticipate capital expenditures for the remainder of fiscal 2019 to be between $100 million and $150 million. Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $13.6 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. Under this program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, through accelerated share repurchase programs, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan or in such other manner as deemed appropriate by our management. The stock repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Since the May 13, 2003 inception of this program through July 27, 2018, we repurchased a total of 291 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $34.79 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $10.1 billion. As of July 27, 2018, the remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program was $3.5 billion. The timing and amount of stock repurchase transactions and future dividends will depend on market conditions, corporate business and financial considerations and regulatory requirements. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional commitments. As of July 27, 2018, we had $382 million in non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory. We record a liability for firm, non-cancelable and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. To the extent that such forecasts are not achieved, our commitments and associated accruals may change. In addition to inventory commitments with contract manufacturers and component suppliers, we have open purchase orders and construction related obligations associated with our ordinary course of business for which we have not received goods or services. As of July 27, 2018, we had $5 million in construction related obligations and $195 million in other purchase obligations. Due to uncertainties regarding tax audits and their possible outcomes, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. Financing Guarantees
While most of our arrangements for sales include short-term payment terms, from time to time we provide long-term financing to creditworthy customers. We have generally sold receivables financed through these arrangements on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions within 10 days of the contracts’ dates of execution, and we classify the proceeds from these sales as cash flows from operating activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. We account for the sales of these receivables as “true sales” as defined in the accounting standards on transfers of financial assets, as we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize product revenues for these arrangements, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions, upon product acceptance. We sold $30 million and $31 million of receivables during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. In addition, we enter into arrangements with leasing companies for the sale of our hardware systems products. These leasing companies, in turn, lease our products to end-users. The leasing companies generally have no recourse to us in the event of default by the end-user and we recognize revenue upon delivery to the end-user customer, if all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Some of the leasing arrangements described above have been financed on a recourse basis through third-party financing institutions. Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. These arrangements are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Where we provide a guarantee for recourse leases, we recognize revenues in accordance with our revenue recognition policy, as updated to reflect the adoption of ASC 606. In connection with certain recourse financing arrangements, we receive advance payments associated with undelivered elements that are subject to customer refund rights. As of July 27, 2018 and April 28, 2017, the aggregate amount by which such contingencies exceeded the associated liabilities was not significant. To date, we have not experienced significant losses under our lease financing programs or other financing arrangements. We have entered into service contracts with certain of our end-user customers that are supported by third-party financing arrangements. If a service contract is terminated as a result of our non-performance under the contract or our failure to comply with the terms of the financing arrangement, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to acquire certain assets related to the service contract or to pay the aggregate unpaid payments under such arrangements. As of July 27, 2018, we have not been required to make any payments under these arrangements, and we believe the likelihood of having to acquire a material amount of assets or make payments under these arrangements is remote. The portion of the financial arrangement that represents unearned services revenue is included in deferred revenue and financed unearned services revenue in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Indemnification Agreements
We enter into indemnification agreements with third parties in the ordinary course of business. Generally, these indemnification agreements require us to reimburse losses suffered by the third-parties due to various events, such as lawsuits arising from patent or copyright infringement. These indemnification obligations are considered off-balance sheet arrangements under accounting guidance. See further details on such matters in Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in market prices, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates. We use certain derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risks. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. All financial instruments are used in accordance with management-approved policies. Our investment portfolio primarily consists of investments with original maturities greater than three months at the date of purchase, which are classified as available-for-sale investments. These investments, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, U.S. Treasury and government debt securities, commercial paper and certificates of deposit, are subject to interest rate and interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. Conversely, declines in interest rates, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in market interest rates from levels as of July 27, 2018 would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our fixed-income securities of approximately $55 million. Volatility in market interest rates over time will cause variability in our interest income. We do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. Our investment policy is to limit credit exposure through diversification and investment in highly rated securities. We further mitigate concentrations of credit risk in our investments by limiting our investments in the debt securities of a single issuer and by diversifying risk across geographies and type of issuer. We actively review, along with our investment advisors, current investment ratings, company-specific events and general economic conditions in managing our investments and in determining whether there is a significant decline in fair value that is other-than-temporary. We monitor and evaluate our investment portfolio on a quarterly basis for any other-than-temporary impairments. Debt — As of July 27, 2018, we have outstanding $1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes. We carry these instruments at face value less unamortized discount on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Since these instruments bear interest at fixed rates, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. However, the fair value of these instruments fluctuates when interest rates change. See Note 9 – Financing Arrangements of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Credit Facility — We are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates in connection with our $1.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility. Borrowings under the facility accrue interest at rates that vary based on certain market rates and our credit rating on our Senior Notes. Consequently, our interest expense would fluctuate with any changes in these market interest rates or in our credit rating if we were to borrow any amounts under the credit facility. As of July 27, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. We utilize foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Currently, sales transactions and expenditures denominated in foreign currencies are not hedged, and therefore are exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. We do not enter into foreign currency exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. In entering into foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of the contracts. We attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign currency exchange contracts with creditworthy multinational commercial banks. All contracts have a maturity of less than six months. See Note 11 – Derivatives and Hedging Activities of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding our derivatives and hedging activities. Controls and Procedures. Disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Legal Proceedings. For a discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and common stock price. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-Q or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes in Part I, Item 1 – Financial Statements and Part I, Item 2 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-Q. The following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face. These risks can and will change in the future. Our business may be harmed by trends in the networked storage hardware market or if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological and market changes. Our industry and the markets in which we compete have historically experienced significant growth due to the increase in the demand for storage and data management solutions by consumers, enterprises and government bodies around the world, and the resultant purchases of storage and data management solutions to address this demand. However, despite continued data growth, the networked storage hardware market experienced a decline in each of the last three calendar years due to a combination of customers delaying purchases in the face of technology transitions, increasing adoption of cloud environments built on commodity hardware, increased storage efficiency, and changing economic and business environments. This evolution is diverting spending towards transformational projects and architectures like flash, hybrid cloud, IT as a service, converged infrastructure, and software defined storage. Our business may be adversely impacted if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological or market changes or if our Data Fabric strategy is not accepted in the marketplace. As a result of these and other factors discussed in the report, our revenue may decline as it did in fiscal years 2015, 2016 and 2017, on a year-over-year basis. The future impact of these trends on both short-term and long-term growth patterns is uncertain. If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products while managing the transition from older products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and related services. Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks. If we are unable, for technological, customer reluctance or other reasons, to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products and services, as and when required by the market and our customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Further risks inherent in new product and solutions introductions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions. If these risks are not managed effectively, we could experience material risks to our operations, financial condition and business model. As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. Our new consumption-based business models may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings. Additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and SaaS delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise hardware and software offerings and could have a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise hardware and software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability, at least in the near term. If we do not successfully execute our consumption model strategy or anticipate the needs of our customers, our revenues and profitability could decline. We incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructure and marketing of our consumption model offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. Our sales and distribution structure makes forecasting revenues difficult and, if disrupted, could harm our operating results. Our business and sales models make revenues difficult to forecast. We sell to a variety of customers directly and through various channels, with a corresponding variety of sales cycles, and we recently reorganized our sales resources to improve the alignment of those resources with customer and market opportunities. The reorganization of our sales resources could result in short or long-term disruption of our sales cycles and harm our operating results. This structure significantly complicates our ability to forecast future revenue, especially within any particular fiscal quarter or year. Moreover, our relationships with our indirect channel partners and strategic business partners are critical to our success. The loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners in a given geographic area or the failure of our channel or strategic partners to promote our products could harm our operating results. Qualifying and developing new indirect channel partners typically require a significant investment of time and resources before acceptable levels of productivity are met. If we fail to maintain our relationships with our indirect channel partners and strategic partners, if their financial condition, business or customer relationships were to weaken, if they fail to comply with legal or regulatory requirements, or if we were to cease to do business with them for these or other reasons, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Increasing competition and industry consolidation could harm our business and operating results. The storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology and fragmentation. We compete with many companies in the markets we serve, including established public companies, newly public companies with a strong flash focus, and new market entrants addressing the growing opportunity for hyper-converged systems. Technology trends, such as the emergence of hosted or public cloud storage, SaaS and flash storage are driving significant changes in storage architectures and solution requirements. Cloud service providers provide customers storage for their data centers on demand, without requiring a capital expenditure, which meets rapidly evolving business needs and has changed the competitive landscape. Competitors may develop new technologies or products in advance of us or establish business models or technologies disruptive to us. By extending our flash, converged infrastructure and cloud storage offerings, we are competing in new segments with both traditional competitors and new competitors, particularly smaller emerging storage vendors. The longer-term potential and competitiveness of these emerging vendors remains to be determined. In cloud and converged infrastructure, we also compete with large well-established competitors. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors might emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or buying power. An increase in industry consolidation might result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as full-stack vendors for customers and achieve increased economies of scale in the supply chain. For example, in October 2016, Dell Inc. and EMC Corp. consummated their agreement to merge. Also, in April 2017, HP Enterprise completed their acquisition of Nimble Storage. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or might establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners or suppliers. Continuing uncertain economic and political conditions restrict our visibility and may harm our operating results, including our revenue growth and profitability. The impacts of these circumstances are global and pervasive, and the timing and nature of any ultimate resolution of these matters remain highly uncertain. Consequently, we expect these concerns to challenge our business for the foreseeable future, which could cause harm to our operating results. Such conditions have resulted, and may in the future again result, in failure to meet our forecasted financial expectations and to achieve historical levels of revenue growth. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate materially, which could harm our common stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and will continue to do so, sometimes materially. All of the matters discussed in this Risk Factors section could impact our operating results in any fiscal quarter or year. If our operating results fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock may decline. Our gross margins vary. Our gross margins reflect a variety of factors, including competitive pricing, component and product design, and the volume and relative mix of revenues from product, software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services. Increased component costs, increased pricing and discounting pressures, the relative and varying rates of increases or decreases in component costs and product prices, or changes in the mix of revenue or decreased volume from product, software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services could harm our revenues, gross margins or earnings. Our gross margins are also impacted by the cost of any materials that are of poor quality and our sales and distribution activities, including, without limitation, pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives and discount levels, and the timing of service contract renewals. The costs of third-party components comprise a significant portion of our product costs. While we generally have been able to manage our component and product design costs, we may have difficulty managing these costs if supplies of certain components become limited or component prices increase. Any such limitation could result in an increase in our product costs. An increase in component or design costs relative to our product prices could harm our gross margins and earnings. We often incur expenses before we receive related benefits, and expenses may be difficult to reduce quickly if demand declines. We base our expense levels in part on future revenue expectations and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. It is difficult to reduce our fixed costs quickly, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results could be adversely impacted. During periods of uneven growth or decline, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could also harm our operating results. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits, such as revenue growth, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain and develop relationships with strategic partners, our revenues may be harmed. Our growth strategy includes developing and maintaining strategic partnerships with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with them. A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management markets. However, there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and these relationships may not be exclusive, may not generate significant revenues and may be terminated on short notice. For instance, some of our partners are also partnering with our competitors, which may increase the availability of competing solutions and harm our ability to grow our relationships with those partners. Moreover, some of our partners, particularly large, more diversified technology companies, are also competitors, thereby complicating our relationships. If we are unable to establish new partnerships or maintain existing partnerships, if our strategic partners favor their relationships with other vendors in the storage industry or if our strategic partners increasingly compete with us, we could experience lower than expected revenues, suffer delays in product development, or experience other harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. If we do not achieve forecasted bookings in any quarter, our financial results could be harmed. We derive a majority of our revenues in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. If we do not achieve the level, timing and mix of bookings consistent with our quarterly targets and historical patterns, or if we experience cancellations of significant orders, our financial results could be harmed. A portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. A loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has negatively affected us in the past, and could negatively affect our revenues in the future. A significant portion of our net revenues are generated through sales to a limited number of distributors. We generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers, resellers and distributors for extended periods of time, and thus there is no guarantee we will continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors. For example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases, and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors or the ability of such customers, resellers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. If any of our key customers, resellers or distributors changes its pricing practices, reduces the size or frequency of its orders for our products, or stops purchasing our products altogether, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for critical product components. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for drives and other components utilized in the assembly of our products, including certain single source suppliers, which has subjected us, and could in the future subject us, to price rigidity, periodic supply constraints, and the inability to produce our products with the quality and in the quantities demanded. Consolidation among suppliers, particularly within the semiconductor and disk drive industries, has contributed to price rigidity and may in the future create supply constraints. When industry supply is constrained, our suppliers may allocate volumes away from us and to our competitors, all of which rely on many of the same suppliers as we do. Accordingly, our operating results may be harmed. Any disruption to our supply chain could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We do not manufacture our products or their components. Instead, we rely on third parties to make our products and critical components, such as disk drives, as well as for associated logistics. The risks associated with our outsourced manufacturing model are particularly acute when we transition products to new facilities or manufacturers, introduce and increase volumes of new products or qualify new contract manufacturers or suppliers, at which times our ability to manage the relationships among us, our manufacturing partners and our component suppliers, becomes critical. New manufacturers, products, components or facilities create increased costs and risk that we will fail to deliver high quality products in the required volumes to our customers. Any failure of a manufacturer or component supplier to meet our quality, quantity or delivery requirements in a cost-effective manner will harm our business, operating results and customer relationships. Due to the global nature of our business, risks inherent in our international operations could materially harm our business. A significant portion of our operations are located, and a significant portion of our revenues are derived, outside of the U.S. In addition, most of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S., and we have research and development, sales and service centers overseas. Accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our international operations including, among other things, local political or economic conditions, trade protection and export and import requirements, tariffs, local labor conditions, transportation costs, government spending patterns, acts of terrorism, international conflicts and natural disasters in areas with limited infrastructure. In particular, the current trade tensions with China could impact our business and operating results. In addition, due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to complex legal and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and sell our products, including antitrust and anti-competition laws, rules and regulations, and regulations related to data privacy. We are also subject to the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation, or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. laws. Such factors could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. We utilize forward and option contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities. Our hedging strategies may not be successful, and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. In addition, our foreign currency exposure on assets, liabilities and cash flows that we do not hedge could have a material impact on our financial results in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to foreign currencies. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. Moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures, or U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Any such violation could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We could be subject to additional income tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate is influenced by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include among other things, fluctuations in our earnings and financial results in the various countries and states in which we do business, the outcome of income tax audits and changes to the tax laws in such jurisdictions. Changes to any of these factors could materially impact our operating results. We receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-U.S. customers. These benefits are contingent upon existing tax laws and regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. Future changes in domestic or international tax laws and regulations or a change in how we manage our international operations could adversely affect our ability to continue realizing these tax benefits. Many countries around the world are beginning to implement legislation and other guidance to align their international tax rules with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations and related action plans that aim to standardize and modernize global corporate tax policy, including changes to cross-border tax, transfer-pricing documentation rules and nexus-based tax incentive practices. As a result, many of these changes, if enacted, could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. We are routinely subject to income tax audits in the U.S. and several foreign tax jurisdictions. If the ultimate determination of income taxes or at-source withholding taxes assessed under these audits results in amounts in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected if there is a change in international operations, our tax structure and how our operations are managed and structured, and as a result, we could experience harm to our operating results and financial condition. Changes to interpretations of the law could change the provisional tax expense or accounting treatment of the $732 million expense we have recorded in relation to the transition tax. We have elected to pay the transition tax over a period of eight years. As result, our cash flows from operating activities will be adversely impacted until the additional tax provisions are paid in full. Our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business in response to changing market conditions and market demand for our products, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results. Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. In response to changes in market conditions and market demand for our products, we have in the past undertaken cost savings initiatives. For example, in May 2015, March 2016, November 2016 and May 2018, we executed restructuring events designed to streamline our business, reduce our cost structure and focus our resources on key strategic opportunities. As a result, we have recognized substantial restructuring charges. In fiscal 2018, we created the Storage Systems and Software, Cloud Data Services, and Cloud Infrastructure business units to enable us to develop the organization and systems to successfully execute a multi-product business. We also reorganized our sales resources to better align with customer and market opportunities. Rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including our new business unit structure and sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop, sell and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. Charges associated with these activities would harm our operating results. In addition to the costs associated with these activities, we may not realize any of the anticipated benefits of the underlying restructuring activities. If our products are defective, or are perceived to be defective as a result of improper use or maintenance, our gross margins, operating results and customer relationships may be harmed. Our hardware and software products are complex. We have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in the future, quality issues. Quality risk is most acute when we are introducing new products. We have also increased the cadence of our product release cycle, which could impact product and service quality. Quality issues have and could again in the future cause customers to experience outages or disruptions in service, data loss or data corruption. If we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses and higher ongoing warranty and service costs, and these occurrences could have a material impact on our gross margins, business and operating results. In addition, we exercise little control over how our customers use or maintain our products, and in some cases improper usage or maintenance could impair the performance of our products, which could lead to a perception of a quality issue. Customers and we may experience losses that may result from or are alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. If a data center or other third party who relies on our products experiences a disruption in service or a loss of data, such disruption could be attributed to the quality of our products, thereby causing financial or reputational harm to our business. Our clients, including data centers, SaaS, cloud computing and internet infrastructure and bandwidth providers, rely on our products for their data storage needs. Our clients may authorize third-party technology providers to access their data on our systems. Because we do not control the transmissions between our clients, their customers, and third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. Errors or wrongdoing by clients, their customers, or third-party technology providers resulting in security breaches may be attributed to us. A failure or inability to meet our clients’ expectations with respect to security and confidentiality through a disruption in the services provided by these third-party vendors, or the loss of data stored by such vendors, could result in financial or reputational harm to our business to the extent that such disruption or loss is caused by, or perceived by our customers to have been caused by, defects in our products. This may affect our ability to retain clients and attract new business. If a cybersecurity or other security breach occurs on our systems or on our end -user customer systems, or if stored data is improperly accessed, customers may reduce or cease using our solutions, our reputation may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities. It is critical to our business strategy that our infrastructure, products and services remain secure and are perceived by customers, clients and partners to be secure. There are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, human error and technological vulnerabilities. Any of these could damage our reputation and public perception of the security and reliability of our products, as well as harm our business and cause us to incur significant liabilities. In addition, a cybersecurity incident or other security breach could result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, disruption of internal operations, increased cybersecurity protection costs and lost revenues. Our clients and customers use our platforms for the transmission and storage of sensitive data. We do not review the information or content that our clients and their customers upload and store, and, therefore, we have no direct control over the substance of the information or content stored within our platforms. If our employees, or our clients, partners or their respective customers use our platforms for the transmission or storage of personal or other sensitive information and our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business may be harmed and we could incur significant liabilities. High-profile cyberattacks and security breaches have increased in recent years, and security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyberattacks targeting IT products and businesses. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. As we continue to increase our client base and expand our brand, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our security systems and we anticipate that hacking attempts and cyberattacks will increase in the future. We cannot give assurance that we will always be successful in preventing or repelling unauthorized access to our systems. Many jurisdictions have enacted or are enacting laws requiring companies to notify regulators or individuals of data security incidents involving certain types of personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding security incidents often lead to widespread negative publicity. Any security incident, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect not to renew their support contracts or their SaaS subscriptions, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, a security incident or loss of personal information could result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, disruption of internal operations, increased cybersecurity protection costs and lost revenues. Our business could be subject to stricter obligations and greater fines under the enactment of new data privacy laws, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation enacted on May 25, 2018. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. Our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or our insurers may deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel and to preserve the key aspects of our corporate culture. Because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified engineers, including in emerging areas of technology such as artificial intelligence and machine learning. In addition, to increase revenues, we will be required to increase the productivity of our sales force and support infrastructure to achieve adequate customer coverage. We have periodically reduced our workforce, including an 11% reduction announced in March 2016 and a 6% reduction announced in November 2016, and these actions may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified employees. Equity grants are a critical component of our current compensation programs. If we reduce, modify or eliminate our equity programs, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining critical employees. In addition, because of the structure of our cash and equity incentive compensation plans, we may be at increased risk of losing employees at certain times. For example, the retention value of our compensation plans decreases after the payment of annual bonuses or the vesting of equity awards. We are continually seeking ways to make our cost structure, business processes and systems more efficient, including by moving activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing new business information systems. Problems with the execution of these activities could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of these initiatives. We continuously seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient, including by moving our business activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing changes to our business information systems. These efforts involve a significant investment of financial and human resources and significant changes to our current operating processes. In addition, as we move operations into lower-cost jurisdictions and outsource certain business processes, we become subject to new regulatory regimes and lose control of certain aspects of our operations and, as a consequence, become more dependent upon the systems and business processes of third-parties. If we are unable to move our operations, outsource business processes and implement new business information systems in a manner that complies with local law and maintains adequate standards, controls and procedures, the quality of our products and services may suffer and we may be subject to increased litigation risk, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, we may not achieve the expected benefits of these and other transformational initiatives, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our acquisitions may not achieve expected benefits, and may increase our liabilities, disrupt our existing business and harm our operating results. As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. For example, in fiscal 2018 we acquired two privately held companies, and in fiscal 2016 we acquired SolidFire, Inc. The benefits we have received, and expect to receive, from these and other acquisitions depend on our ability to successfully conduct due diligence, negotiate the terms of the acquisition and integrate the acquired business into our systems, procedures and organizational structure. Any inaccuracy in our acquisition assumptions or any failure to uncover liabilities or risks associated with the acquisition, make the acquisition on favorable terms, integrate the acquired business or assets as and when expected or retain key employees of the acquired company may reduce or eliminate the expected benefits of the acquisition to us, increase our costs, disrupt our operations, result in additional liabilities, investigations and litigation, and may also harm our strategy, our business and our operating results. The failure to achieve expected acquisition benefits may also result in impairment charges for goodwill and purchased intangible assets. Reduced U.S. government demand could materially harm our business and operating results. In addition, we could be harmed by claims that we have or a channel partner has failed to comply with regulatory and contractual requirements applicable to sales to the U.S. government. The U.S. government is an important customer for us. However, government demand is uncertain, as it is subject to political and budgetary fluctuations and constraints. Events such as the U.S. federal government shutdown in October 2013 and continued uncertainty regarding the U.S. budget and debt levels have increased demand uncertainty for our products, and in our fiscal 2016 resulted in lower sales to these customers. In addition, like other customers, the U.S. government may evaluate competing products and delay purchasing in the face of the technology transitions taking place in the storage industry. If the U.S. government or an individual agency or multiple agencies within the U.S. government continue to reduce or shift their IT spending patterns, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. Selling our products to the U.S. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, and other penalties, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. Although the DOJ and GSA currently have no claims pending against us, we could face claims in the future. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are exposed to credit risks and fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. Credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. As a result, the value and liquidity of our investments may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although we have not recently realized any significant losses on our investments, future fluctuations in their value could result in a significant realized loss. There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. As of July 27, 2018, we had $1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness for our senior notes that mature at specific dates in calendar years 2019, 2021, 2022 and 2024, and we had an aggregate of $200 million of commercial paper notes outstanding with maturities ranging from 14 to 31 days. We may fail to pay these or additional future obligations, as and when required. Specifically, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service or refinance our debt, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest upon any potential future financing, then interest expense related to the refinance indebtedness would increase. In addition, all our debt and credit facility arrangements subject us to continued compliance with restrictive and financial covenants. If we do not comply with these covenants or otherwise default under the arrangements, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts borrowed under these agreements. Moreover, compliance with these covenants may restrict our strategic or operational flexibility in the future, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our customers, resellers and distributors, especially during times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses. Most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days. We may experience losses due to a customer’s inability to pay. Beyond our open credit arrangements, some of our customers have entered into recourse and non-recourse financing leasing arrangements using third-party leasing companies. Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. During periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. In addition, our exposure to credit risks of our customers may increase further if our customers and their customers or their lease financing sources are adversely affected by global economic conditions. Our failure to adjust to emerging standards in the storage and data management industry may harm our business. Emerging standards in the storage and data management markets may adversely affect the UNIX®, Windows® and World Wide Web server markets upon which we depend. For example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we operate. If our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we may not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted. Some of our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and other laws affecting the countries in which our products and services may be sold, distributed, or delivered, and any violation of these laws could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The U.S., through the BIS and OFAC, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons. Violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products to the federal government. Our products could be shipped to those targets by third parties, including potentially our channel partners, despite our precautions. Even if we were not found to have violated such laws, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant expense and reputational harm. Such collateral consequences could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in regulations relating to our products or their components, or the manufacture, sourcing, distribution or use thereof, may harm our business and operating results. The laws and regulations governing the manufacturing, sourcing, distribution and use of our products have become more complex and stringent over time. For example, in addition to various environmental laws relating to carbon emissions and the use and discharge of hazardous materials, the SEC adopted regulations concerning the supply of certain minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. We incur costs to comply with the disclosure requirements of this law and may realize other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our products. Further, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational harm if our customers or other stakeholders conclude that we are unable to verify sufficiently the origins of the minerals used in the products we sell. As the laws and regulations governing our products continue to expand and change, our costs are likely to rise, and the failure to comply with any such laws and regulations could subject us to business interruptions, litigation risks and reputational harm. Our failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends significantly upon developing, maintaining and protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions with employees, resellers, strategic partners and customers, to protect our proprietary rights. We currently have multiple U.S. and international patent applications pending and multiple U.S. and international patents issued. The pending applications may not be approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged. If such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. We may not be able to develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, and patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. Further, the patents of others may materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. In addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and competitive condition. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. Any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the U.S. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. In addition, while we train employees in confidentiality practices and include terms in our employee and consultant agreements to protect our intellectual property, there is persistent risk that some individuals will improperly take our intellectual property after terminating their employment or other engagements with us, which could lead to intellectual property leakage to competitors and a loss of our competitive advantages. We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others. We compete in markets in which intellectual property infringement claims arise in the normal course of business. Third parties have, from time to time, asserted intellectual property-related claims against us, including claims for alleged patent infringement brought by non-practicing entities. Such claims may be made against our products and services, our customers’ use of our products and services, or a combination of our products and third-party products. We also may be subject to claims and indemnification obligations from customers and resellers with respect to third-party intellectual property rights pursuant to our agreements with them. If we refuse to indemnify or defend such claims, even in situations in which the third party’s allegations are meritless, then customers and resellers may refuse to do business with us. Patent litigation is particularly common in our industry. We have been, and continue to be, in active patent litigations with non-practicing entities. While we vigorously defend our ability to compete in the marketplace, there is no guarantee that, in patent or other types of intellectual property litigation, we will prevail at trial or be able to settle at a reasonable cost. We expect that companies in the network storage and data management markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, and any such infringement claims discussed above, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Many of our products are designed to include software licensed from third parties. Such third-party software includes software licensed from commercial suppliers and software licensed under public open source licenses. We have internal processes to manage our use of such third-party software. However, if we fail to adequately manage our use of third-party software, then we may be subject to copyright infringement or other third-party claims. If we are non-compliant with a license for commercial software, then we may be required to pay penalties or undergo costly audits pursuant to the license agreement. In the case of open-source software licensed under certain “copyleft” licenses, the license itself may require, or a court-imposed remedy for non-compliant use of the open source software may require, that proprietary portions of our own software be publicly disclosed or licensed. Our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of natural disasters, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. We depend on the ability of our personnel, inventories, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. Any political, military, terrorism, global trade, world health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. Furthermore, any economic failure or other material disruption caused by natural disasters, including fires, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, and volcanoes; power loss or shortages; environmental disasters; telecommunications or business information systems failures or break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. If such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on IT, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, or impair our ability to meet our customer demands, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our headquarters is located in Northern California, an area susceptible to earthquakes and wildfires. If any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business and our financial condition could be impaired. Our stock price is subject to volatility. Our stock price is subject to changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors' or analysts' valuation measures for our stock, changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt, changes in our credit ratings, our ability to pay dividends and to continue to execute our stock repurchase program as planned and market trends unrelated to our performance. Our ability to pay quarterly dividends and to continue to execute our stock repurchase program as planned will be subject to, among other things, our financial condition and operating results, available cash and cash flows in the U.S., capital requirements, and other factors. Future dividends are subject to declaration by our Board of Directors, and our stock repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any specific number of shares. Additionally, price volatility of our stock over a given period may cause the average price at which we repurchase our own stock to exceed the stock’s market price at a given point in time. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations or business can cause changes in our stock price. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products or services, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes may adversely affect our stock price. Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. As of July 27, 2018, our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $13.6 billion of our common stock. Since inception of the program through July 27, 2018, we repurchased a total of 291 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $10.1 billion. Under this program, which we may suspend or discontinue at any time, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, through accelerated share repurchase programs, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan or in such other manner as deemed appropriate by our management. Item 3. Defaults upon Senior Securities. None. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not Applicable. Item 5. Other Information. None. Exhibits. The following documents are filed as exhibits to this report. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.