Yes x No oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. Accordingly, investors should monitor these accounts and the blog, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. This list may be updated from time to time. The information we post through these channels is not a part of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. These channels may be updated from time to time on NVIDIA's investor relations website. 2PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATIONITEM 1. The January 28, 2018 consolidated balance sheet was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018, as filed with the SEC, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments except as otherwise noted, considered necessary for a fair statement of results of operations and financial position have been included. The results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period. The following information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018. Significant Accounting PoliciesExcept for the accounting policy for revenue recognition, which was updated as a result of adopting a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition, there have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies in Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.Revenue RecognitionWe derive our revenue from product sales, including hardware and systems, license and development arrangements, and software licensing. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers.For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed historical return rates, we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns.Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. We account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for potential rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by customers. License and Development ArrangementsOur license and development arrangements with customers typically require significant customization of our intellectual property components. As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed. We measure progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each project. If a loss on an arrangement becomes probable during a period, we record a provision for such loss in that period. Customers may purchase either perpetual licenses or subscriptions to licenses, which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Software licenses are frequently sold along with post contract customer support, or PCS. For such arrangements, we allocate revenue to the software license and PCS on a relative standalone selling price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation. Revenue from software licenses is recognized up front when the software is made available to the customer. PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.Fiscal YearWe operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January. Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 are both 52-week years. The second quarters of fiscal years 2019 and 2018 were both 13-week quarters.ReclassificationsCertain prior fiscal year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current fiscal year presentation.Principles of ConsolidationOur condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.Use of EstimatesThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, cash equivalents and marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes, goodwill, stock-based compensation, litigation, investigation and settlement costs, restructuring and other charges, and other contingencies. These estimates are based on historical facts and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable.Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting PronouncementsRecently Adopted Accounting PronouncementsThe Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies, in all industries. We adopted this guidance on January 29, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. Refer to Note 2 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to amend certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. We are now required to recognize changes in the fair value of our equity investments through net income rather than other comprehensive income. We adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.Recent Accounting Pronouncement Not Yet AdoptedIn February 2016 and July 2018, the FASB issued accounting standards updates regarding the accounting for leases by which we will begin recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for lease terms of more than 12 months. The FASB also recently provided a practical expedient transition method to adopt the new lease accounting requirements. We are evaluating the impact of adopting the new lease accounting standards on our consolidated financial statements, systems and processes in conjunction with our review of lease agreements. The updates will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. We expect the adoption of this accounting guidance to result in an increase in lease assets and a corresponding increase in lease liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Upon adoption, we recognized the cumulative effect of the new standard as a $7 million increase to opening retained earnings, net of tax. Comparative information for prior periods has not been adjusted. The impact of the new standard on our consolidated financial statements for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019 was not significant. Deferred Revenue and Performance ObligationsDeferred revenue is comprised mainly of customer advances and deferrals related to license and development arrangements and PCS related to software licensing. As of July 29, 2018, the amount of our remaining performance obligations that have not been recognized as revenue was $235 million, of which we expect to recognize approximately 50% as revenue over the next twelve months and the remainder thereafter. Depending on the actual level of the corporate performance achievement at the end of fiscal year 2019, the PSUs issued could be up to 0.3 million shares. Of the total fair value of equity awards granted during the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2018, we estimated that the stock-based compensation expense related to equity awards that are not expected to vest was $10 million and $39 million, respectively. The Convertible Notes have a dilutive impact on net income per share if our average stock price for the reporting period exceeds the adjusted conversion price of $20.02 per share. The warrants associated with our Convertible Notes, or the Warrants, outstanding are also included in the calculation of diluted net income per share. As of July 29, 2018, there were no warrants outstanding.Refer to Note 12 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Convertible Notes and Note Hedges.Note 5 – Income TaxesWe recognized income tax expense of $79 million and $146 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively, and $101 million and $130 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2018, respectively. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before income tax for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019 was 6.7% and 5.9%, respectively, and 14.8% and 10.7% for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2018, respectively. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019 as compared to the same periods in the prior fiscal year was primarily due to a decrease in the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% as a result of U.S. tax reform, partially offset by a decrease in the impact of tax benefits from stock-based compensation.Our effective tax rates for the first half of fiscal years 2019 and 2018 of 5.9% and 10.7%, respectively, were lower than the U.S. federal statutory rates of 21% and 33.9%, for fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively, due to higher income earned in jurisdictions that are subject to taxes lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate, tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, and the benefit of the U.S. federal research tax credit. The TCJA was effective in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018 and we have recorded provisional amounts based on reasonable estimates for those tax effects. For the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we have not recorded any adjustments to our provisional amounts. We will continue our analysis of these provisional amounts, which are still subject to change during the measurement period based on further guidance on accounting interpretations from the FASB and application of the law from the U.S. Department of Treasury, including proposed regulations relating to the one-time transition tax issued on August 1, 2018.The TCJA subjects a U.S. corporation to tax on its global intangible low-taxed income, or GILTI. Under U.S. GAAP, we can make an accounting policy election to either treat taxes due on the GILTI as a current period expense or factor such amounts into our measurement of deferred taxes. Given the complexity of the GILTI provisions, we are still evaluating its effects and have not yet determined our accounting policy. We expect to complete our analysis within the measurement period. For the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, because we are still evaluating the effects of the GILTI provisions, we have included tax expense related to GILTI for current-year operations in our estimated annual effective tax rate and have not provided for GILTI on deferred items.For the first half of fiscal year 2019, there have been no material changes to our tax years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions. Additionally, there have been no material changes to our unrecognized tax benefits and any related interest or penalties since the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.While we believe that we have adequately provided for all uncertain tax positions, or tax positions where we believe it is not more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained upon review, amounts asserted by tax authorities could be greater or less than our accrued position. Accordingly, our provisions on federal, state and foreign tax related matters to be recorded in the future may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved with the respective tax authorities. As of July 29, 2018, we do not believe that our estimates, as otherwise provided for, on such tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next twelve months.On August 1, 2018, the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of the Treasury issued proposed regulations relating to the one-time transition tax provision of the TCJA. Any required adjustment must be recorded during the measurement period as determined in accordance with the SEC guidance. While we are currently evaluating the potential impact of the regulations, we expect to record a discrete tax benefit in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 related to our provisional U.S. tax reform transition tax amount. We have the intent and ability to hold our investments until maturity. For the second quarter and first half of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, there were no other-than-temporary impairment losses and net realized gains were not significant.The amortized cost and estimated fair value of cash equivalents and marketable securities as of July 29, 2018 and January 28, 2018 are shown below by contractual maturity. We review fair value hierarchy classification on a quarterly basis. There were no significant transfers between Levels 1 and 2 financial assets and liabilities for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. Level 3 financial assets and liabilities are based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology and include our own data about assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available under the circumstances. Amortization expense associated with intangible assets was $6 million and $17 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively, and $14 million and $29 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2018, respectively. Future amortization expense related to the net carrying amount of intangible assets as of July 29, 2018 is estimated to be $12 million for the remainder of fiscal year 2019, $20 million in fiscal year 2020, $11 million in fiscal year 2021, $4 million in fiscal year 2022, $3 million in fiscal year 2023, and $1 million in fiscal 2024. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges and assess the effectiveness of the hedge relationships on a spot to spot basis. The fair value of the contracts was not significant as of July 29, 2018 and January 28, 2018.We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. These forward contracts were not designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, there were no gains or losses associated with ineffectiveness.Note 11 - GuaranteesU.S. GAAP requires that upon issuance of a guarantee, the guarantor must recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation it assumes under that guarantee.Accrual for Product Warranty LiabilitiesWe record a reduction to revenue for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized primarily based on historical return rates. Cost of revenue includes the estimated cost of product warranties. Under limited circumstances, we may offer an extended limited warranty to customers for certain products. Additionally, we accrue for known warranty and indemnification issues if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. The estimated product returns and estimated product warranty liabilities was $16 million and $15 million as of July 29, 2018 and January 28, 2018, respectively.In connection with certain agreements that we have entered into in the past, we have provided indemnities to cover the indemnified party for matters such as tax, product, and employee liabilities. We have included intellectual property indemnification provisions in our technology related agreements with third parties. Maximum potential future payments cannot be estimated because many of these agreements do not have a maximum stated liability. We have not recorded any liability in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for such indemnifications.Note 12 - DebtLong-Term Debt2.20% Notes Due 2021 and 3.20% Notes Due 2026In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the 2.20% Notes Due 2021, and $1.00 billion of the 3.20% Notes Due 2026, or collectively, the Notes. Interest on the Notes is payable on March 16 and September 16 of each year, beginning on March 16, 2017. Upon 30 days' notice to holders of the Notes, we may redeem the Notes for cash prior to maturity, at redemption prices that include accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and a make-whole premium. However, no make-whole premium will be paid for redemptions of the Notes Due 2021 on or after August 16, 2021, or for redemptions of the Notes Due 2026 on or after June 16, 2026. The net proceeds from the Notes were $1.98 billion, after deducting debt discount and issuance costs. The Notes are structurally subordinated to the liabilities of our subsidiaries and are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. Through the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we had settled an aggregate of $1.49 billion of the Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes will mature on December 1, 2018 and we had $14 million in principal amount outstanding as of July 29, 2018. Effective August 1, 2018, holders may convert all or any portion of their Convertible Notes before the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date of December 1, 2018 regardless of conversion conditions.During the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we paid cash to settle an insignificant amount of the Convertible Notes. Subsequently, we received additional conversion notices for an aggregate of $11 million in principal amount of the Convertible Notes which are expected to be settled in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we also issued one thousand shares of our common stock for the excess conversion value and the related loss on early conversions was not significant. Based on the closing price of our common stock of $252.02 on the last trading day of the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, the if-converted value of the remaining outstanding Convertible Notes exceeded their principal amount by approximately $162 million. As of July 29, 2018, the conversion rate was 49.94 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes.Note HedgesConcurrently with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, we entered into the Note Hedges. Through July 29, 2018, we had received 56 million shares of our common stock from the exercise of a portion of the Note Hedges related to the settlement of $1.49 billion in principal amount of the Convertible Notes.Revolving Credit FacilityWe have a Credit Agreement under which we may borrow up to $575 million for general corporate purposes and can obtain revolving loan commitments up to $425 million. As of July 29, 2018, we had not borrowed any amounts under this agreement.Commercial PaperWe have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. As of July 29, 2018, we had not issued any commercial paper. Polaris alleges that NVIDIA has infringed and is continuing to infringe six U.S. patents relating to the control of dynamic random-access memory, or DRAM. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages, enhanced damages, interest, fees, expenses, and costs against NVIDIA. On September 14, 2016, NVIDIA answered the Polaris Complaint and asserted various defenses including non-infringement and invalidity of the six Polaris patents.On December 5, 2016, the Texas Court granted NVIDIA’s motion to transfer and ordered the case transferred to the Northern District of California.Between December 7, 2016 and July 25, 2017, NVIDIA filed multiple petitions for inter partes review, or IPR, at the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, challenging the validity of each of the patents asserted by Polaris in the U.S. litigation. The USPTO instituted IPRs for four U.S. patents and declined to institute IPRs on two U.S. patents. The USPTO issued a Final Written Decision on the IPR relating to one of the patents on June 19, 2018, finding claims 1-23 and 28 unpatentable but that claims 24-27 were not proved unpatentable.On June 15, 2017, the California Court granted NVIDIA’s motion to stay the district court litigation pending resolution of the petitions for IPR. The California Court has not set a trial date.On December 30, 2016, Polaris filed a complaint against NVIDIA for patent infringement in the Regional Court of Düsseldorf, Germany. Polaris alleges that NVIDIA has infringed and is continuing to infringe three patents relating to control of DRAM. On July 14, 2017, NVIDIA filed defenses to the infringement allegations including non-infringement with respect to each of the three asserted patents. An oral hearing is scheduled for February 21, 2019.Between March 31, 2017 and June 12, 2017, NVIDIA filed nullity actions with the German Patent Court challenging the validity of each of the patents asserted by Polaris in the German litigation.ZiiLabs 1 Patents LawsuitOn October 2, 2017, ZiiLabs Inc., Ltd., or ZiiLabs, a non-practicing entity, filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that NVIDIA has infringed and is continuing to infringe four U.S. patents relating to GPUs, or the ZiiLabs 1 Patents. ZiiLabs is a Bermuda corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Creative Technology Asia Limited, a Hong Kong company which is itself is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Creative Technology Ltd., a publicly traded Singapore company. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages, enhanced damages, interest, costs, and fees against NVIDIA and an injunction against further direct or direct infringement of the ZiiLabs 1 Patents. On November 27, 2017, NVIDIA answered the ZiiLabs complaint and asserted various defenses including non-infringement and invalidity of the ZiiLabs 1 Patents.On January 10, 2018, ZiiLabs filed a first amended complaint asserting infringement of a fifth U.S. patent.On February 22, 2018, the Delaware Court stayed the ZiiLabs 1 case pending the resolution of the ITC investigation over the ZiiLabs 2 patents.ZiiLabs 2 Patents LawsuitsOn December 27, 2017, ZiiLabs filed a second complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that NVIDIA has infringed four additional U.S. patents, or the ZiiLabs 2 Patents. The second complaint also seeks unspecified monetary damages, enhanced damages, interest, costs, and fees against NVIDIA and an injunction against further direct or direct infringement of the ZiiLabs 2 Patents.On February 22, 2018, the Delaware Court stayed the district court action on the ZiiLabs 2 patents pending the resolution of the ITC Investigation over the ZiiLabs 2 patents. ZiiLabs alleges that the unlawful importation results from the infringement of the ZiiLabs 2 Patents by products from respondents NVIDIA, ASUSTeK Computer Inc., ASUS Computer International, EVGA Corporation, Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd., G.B.T. On July 17, 2018, the USITC affirmed this decision on modified grounds.Accounting for Loss ContingenciesWhile there can be no assurance of favorable outcomes, we believe the claims made by the other parties in the above ongoing matters are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend the actions. As of July 29, 2018, we have not recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities associated with the legal proceedings described above based on our belief that liabilities, while possible, are not probable. Further, any possible loss or range of loss in these matters cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. We are engaged in other legal actions not described above arising in the ordinary course of its business and, while there can be no assurance of favorable outcomes, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position.Note 14 - Shareholders’ Equity Capital Return Program Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.During the first half of fiscal year 2019, we repurchased a total of 3 million shares for $655 million. During the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, we also paid $91 million and $182 million, respectively, in cash dividends to our shareholders.Through July 29, 2018, we have repurchased an aggregate of 254 million shares under our share repurchase program for a total cost of $6.16 billion. All shares delivered from these repurchases have been placed into treasury stock. As of July 29, 2018, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $1.16 billion through December 2020.Preferred StockAs of July 29, 2018 and January 28, 2018, there were no shares of preferred stock outstanding.Common StockWe are authorized to issue up to 2.00 billion shares of our common stock at $0.001 per share par value.Note 15 - Segment InformationOur Chief Executive Officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, or CODM, reviews financial information presented on an operating segment basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. Our operating segments are equivalent to our reportable segments. We report our business in two primary reportable segments - the GPU business and the Tegra Processor business - based on a single underlying architecture. While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for artificial intelligence, or AI, data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices. In instances where the operating expenses of certain functions benefit both reportable segments, our CODM assigns 100% of those expenses to the reportable segment that benefits the most. The “All Other” category presented below represents the revenue and expenses that our CODM does not assign to either the GPU business or the Tegra Processor business for purposes of making operating decisions or assessing financial performance. The revenue includes primarily patent licensing revenue and the expenses include stock-based compensation expense, corporate infrastructure and support costs, acquisition-related costs, legal settlement costs, contributions, restructuring and other charges, product warranty charge, and other non-recurring charges and benefits that our CODM deems to be enterprise in nature. Our CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on a reportable segment basis. Reportable segments do not record intersegment revenue, and, accordingly, there is none to be reported. The accounting policies for segment reporting are the same as for NVIDIA as a whole. The table below presents details of our reportable segments and the “All Other” category. 21ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSForward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. Forward-looking statements are based on our management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “goal,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “predict,” “potential” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time frames or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, time frames or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties and other factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in greater detail under the heading “Risk Factors.” Given these risks, uncertainties and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this filing. You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated.The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with “Item 6. Selected Financial Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 and “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, before deciding to purchase or sell shares of our common stock.OverviewOur Company and Our BusinessesStarting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer science. We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI. Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.Our two reportable segments - GPU and Tegra Processor - are based on a single underlying architecture. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices. Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Each of our market platforms - gaming, professional visualization, datacenter, and automotive - produced sequential and year-over-year growth.GPU business revenue was $2.66 billion, up 40% from a year earlier and down 4% sequentially, led by gaming, professional visualization, and datacenter, offsetting a substantial decline in cryptocurrency GPUs. Gaming revenue was $1.80 billion, up 52% from a year ago and up 5% sequentially. Gaming GPU growth was fueled by Pascal-based GPUs for desktops and by high-performance notebooks based on our Max-Q technology. Professional visualization revenue was $281 million, up 20% from a year earlier and up 12% sequentially. Datacenter revenue was $760 million, up 83% from a year ago and up 8% sequentially, led by strong sales of our Volta architecture products, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems. OEM and IP revenue was $116 million, down 54% from a year ago and down 70% sequentially, driven by lower demand for GPUs for cryptocurrency mining. Cryptocurrency-related revenue included in OEM was $18 million, and we expect it to be negligible going forward.Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes Automotive, SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console, and other embedded Tegra platforms - was $467 million, up 40% from a year ago and up 6% sequentially. Automotive revenue of $161 million was up 13% from a year earlier and up 11% sequentially, incorporating infotainment modules, production DRIVE PX platforms, and development agreements with automotive companies. Gross margin for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 was 63.3%. Gross margin is normalizing to our core business and includes only minor benefits from cryptocurrency mining demand.Operating expenses for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 were $818 million, up 33% from a year earlier and up 6% sequentially, reflecting increased headcount and related costs for our growth initiatives - gaming, AI, and autonomous driving.Income from operations for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $1.16 billion, up 68% from a year earlier and down 11% sequentially. Net income and net income per diluted share for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 were $1.10 billion and $1.76, respectively, up 89% and 91%, respectively, from a year earlier, fueled by strong revenue growth and improved gross and operating margins. During the first half of fiscal year 2019, we returned $837 million to shareholders through a combination of $655 million in share repurchases and $182 million in cash dividends. For fiscal year 2019, we intend to return $1.25 billion to shareholders through ongoing quarterly cash dividends and share repurchases.Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $7.94 billion as of July 29, 2018, compared with $7.30 billion at the end of the prior quarter. We also announced a number of Max-Q GeForce gaming notebook designs offered by major OEMs, enabling high-end performance for thin and light notebooks; disclosed that next-generation NVIDIA G-SYNC HDR displays are being shipped, enabling stutter-free gaming; and announced NVIDIA’s role in VirtualLink, a consortium establishing an industry standard to enable next-gen VR headsets to connect with PCs using a single, high-bandwidth USB Type-C connector. In August 2018, we unveiled our first Turing-based GPUs -- NVIDIA Quadro RTX 8000, RTX 6000 and RTX 5000 -- which we believe will revolutionize the work of millions of designers and artists; and introduced the NVIDIA RTX Server, a ray-tracing global illumination rendering server for render farms.During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we announced NVIDIA RTX, a computer graphics technology that produces movie-quality images in real time. We also unveiled advances to our deep learning computing platform - including NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPUs with 32GB memory, NVIDIA NVSwitch GPU interconnect fabric, NVIDIA DGX-2, and TensorRT 4, the latest version of the TensorRT AI inference accelerator software. In addition, we announced GPU acceleration for Kubernetes to facilitate enterprise inference deployment on multi-cloud GPU clusters and the Quadro GV100 GPU with RTX technology, making real-time ray tracing possible on professional design and content creation applications.Tegra Processor BusinessDuring the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we announced that Daimler and Bosch have selected NVIDIA’s DRIVE platform to bring automated and driverless vehicles to city streets, with pilot testing set to begin next year in Silicon Valley. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we introduced the NVIDIA DRIVE Constellation server with DRIVE Sim software, a complete system to safely test drive autonomous vehicles over billions of miles in virtual reality by leveraging NVIDIA GPUs and NVIDIA DRIVE Pegasus.Financial Information by Business Segment and Geographic DataRefer to Note 15 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure regarding segment information.Results of OperationsThe following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income expressed as a percentage of revenue. GPU business revenue increased by 40% for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. This increase was due primarily to 50% growth in sales of GeForce GPU products for gaming, driven by Pascal-based GPUs for desktops and by high-performance notebooks based on our Max-Q technology. Datacenter revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, increased 83%, reflecting strong sales of our Volta architecture products, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 20% due primarily to higher sales across desktop and mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue decreased by almost 60% driven by lower demand for GPU products targeted for use in cryptocurrency mining.GPU business revenue increased by 57% for the first half of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first half of fiscal year 2018. This increase was due primarily to almost 60% growth in sales of GeForce GPU products for gaming, driven by Pascal-based GPUs for desktops and by high-performance notebooks based on our Max-Q technology. Datacenter revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, increased 77%, reflecting strong sales of our Volta architecture, including NVIDIA Tesla V100 and DGX systems. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 21% due primarily to higher sales across desktop and mobile workstation products. Our PC OEM revenue increased by almost 50% due primarily to sales of GPU products targeted for use in cryptocurrency mining in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.Tegra Processor Business. Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 40% for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. This was driven by an increase of over 75% in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms and development services, and an increase of 13% in automotive revenue, primarily from DRIVE PX platforms and development agreements with automotive companies, as well as from infotainment modules.Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 37% for the first half of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first half of fiscal year 2018. This was driven by an increase of over 80% in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms and development services, and an increase of 9% in automotive revenue, primarily from DRIVE PX platforms and development agreements with automotive companies, as well as from infotainment modules.All Other. Our patent license agreement with Intel concluded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.Concentration of Revenue Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and Other Americas accounted for 80% of total revenue for both the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019. Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and Other Americas accounted for 79% and 78% of total revenue for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2018, respectively. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the revenue is attributable to end customers in a different location.No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for the second quarter and first half of fiscal years 2019 and 2018.Gross MarginOur overall gross margin increased to 63.3% and 63.9% for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively, primarily due to a favorable mix shift within our GPU segment.Inventory provisions totaled $21 million and $13 million for the second quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $12 million and $9 million for the second quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was an unfavorable impact of 0.3% and 0.2% for the second quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. 25Inventory provisions totaled $54 million and $16 million for the first half of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $16 million and $22 million for the first half of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. The gross margin of our GPU business increased during the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019 compared to the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2018, primarily due to strong sales of high-end GeForce gaming GPUs and revenue growth in Datacenter. Tegra Processor Business. The gross margin of our Tegra Processor business was flat during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. Interest income was $32 million and $15 million during the second quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $57 million and $31 million during the first half of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in interest income was primarily due to higher average cash balances invested in interest bearing securities, as well as higher purchased yields. Interest expense is primarily comprised of coupon interest and debt discount amortization related to the 2.20% Notes Due 2021 and 3.20% Notes Due 2026 issued in September 2016, and the 1.00% Convertible Notes Due 2018, or the Convertible Notes, issued in December 2013. Interest expense was $14 million and $15 million during the second quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $29 million and $31 million during the first half of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively.Other, NetOther, net, consists primarily of realized or unrealized gains and losses from non-affiliated investments, losses on early debt conversions of the Convertible Notes, and the impact of changes in foreign currency rates. Other, net, was not significant during the second quarter or the first half of fiscal year 2019. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before income tax for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019 was 6.7% and 5.9%, respectively, and 14.8% and 10.7% for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2018, respectively. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed internally. Our investment policy requires the purchase of high grade investment securities, the diversification of asset types, and certain limits on our portfolio duration.Cash provided by operating activities increased in the first half of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first half of fiscal year 2018, due to higher net income and changes in working capital. Cash used in investing activities increased in the first half of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first half of fiscal year 2018, due to higher purchases of marketable securities, partially offset by higher maturities of marketable securities.Cash used in financing activities decreased in the first half of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first half of fiscal year 2018, due to lower repayments of Convertible Notes, partially offset by higher tax payments related to employee stock plans.LiquidityOur primary sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, our marketable securities, and the cash generated by our operations. Our marketable securities consist of debt securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, highly rated corporations and financial institutions, asset-backed issuers, mortgage-backed securities by government-sponsored enterprises, and foreign government entities. These marketable securities are denominated in United States dollars. Refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.As a result of the Tax Cuts and Job Acts that was signed into law in December 2017, substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held outside of the United States as of July 29, 2018 are available for use in the United States without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes. Refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 27Capital Return to ShareholdersDuring the first half of fiscal year 2019, we repurchased a total of 3 million shares for $655 million. During the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, we also paid $91 million and $182 million, respectively, in cash dividends to our shareholders.For fiscal year 2019, we intend to return $1.25 billion to shareholders through ongoing quarterly cash dividends and share repurchases. Our cash dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under that program are subject to our Board's continuing determination that the dividend program and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.Notes Due 2021 and Notes Due 2026 In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the 2.20% Notes Due 2021 and $1.00 billion of the 3.20% Notes Due 2026, collectively, the Notes. The net proceeds from the Notes were $1.98 billion, after deducting debt discounts and issuance costs.Convertible NotesAs of July 29, 2018, we had $14 million of Convertible Notes outstanding. Subsequently, we received additional conversion notices for an aggregate of $11 million in principal amount of the Convertible Notes, which are expected to be settled in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.Revolving Credit Facility We have a Credit Agreement under which we may borrow up to $575 million for general corporate purposes and can obtain revolving loan commitments up to $425 million. As of July 29, 2018, we had not borrowed any amounts under this agreement.Commercial Paper We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. As of July 29, 2018, we had not issued any commercial paper.Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure RequirementsIn the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we began construction on a 750,000 square foot building on our Santa Clara campus, which is currently targeted for completion in fiscal year 2022. We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months.Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsAs of July 29, 2018, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by applicable SEC regulations.Contractual ObligationsThere were no material changes in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a description of our contractual obligations.Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting PronouncementsRefer to Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of adoption of new and recently issued accounting pronouncements. 28ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKInvestment and Interest Rate RiskFinancial market risks related to investment and interest rate risk are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018. As of July 29, 2018, there have been no material changes to the financial market risks described as of January 28, 2018.Foreign Exchange Rate Risk The impact of foreign currency transactions related to foreign exchange rate risk is described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018. As of July 29, 2018, there have been no material changes to the foreign exchange rate risks described as of January 28, 2018.Refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.ITEM 4. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within NVIDIA have been detected.PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSRefer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018. Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRefer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018. Additionally, any one of those risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. 29ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDSIssuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesBeginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock. In November 2016, the Board authorized an additional $2.00 billion under our repurchase program and extended it through December 2020.Since the inception of our share repurchase program, we have repurchased an aggregate of 254 million shares under our share repurchase program for a total cost of $6.16 billion through July 29, 2018. All shares delivered from these repurchases have been placed into treasury stock. As of July 29, 2018, we were authorized to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $1.16 billion through December 2020.The repurchases can be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured share repurchase programs, and can be made in one or more larger repurchases. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion.We had no share repurchase transactions during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.Transactions Related to our Convertible Notes and Note HedgesDuring the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we issued one thousand shares of our common stock upon settlement of Convertible Notes submitted for conversion. In connection with these conversions, we exercised a portion of our Note Hedges to acquire an equal number of shares of our common stock. The counterparty to the Note Hedges may be deemed an “affiliated purchaser” and may have purchased the shares of our common stock deliverable to us upon this exercise of our option. Subsequently, we received additional conversion notices for an aggregate of $11 million in principal amount of the Convertible Notes, which are expected to be settled in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. The actual number of shares issuable upon conversion will be determined based upon the terms of the Convertible Notes. We expect to receive an equal number of shares of our common stock under the terms of the Note Hedges. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Convertible Notes and the Note Hedges.Restricted Stock Unit Share WithholdingWe also withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards under our employee equity incentive program. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we withheld approximately 0.3 million shares at a total cost of $66 million through net share settlements. During the first half of fiscal year 2019, we withheld approximately 2.1 million shares at a total cost of $515 million through net share settlements. Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our equity incentive plans. 30ITEM 6. EXHIBITSExhibit No.