See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive in nature, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or otherwise contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be preceded by, followed by or include the words “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “strives,” “estimates,” “will,” “should,” “is designed to” and similar expressions. We claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for all forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about our business that could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. We have no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or risks, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. New information, future events or risks could cause the forward-looking events we discuss in this Quarterly Report not to occur. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our expectations only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. However, we believe that the disclosures herein are adequate to ensure the information presented is not misleading. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. We believe that all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal recurring items, have been included in the accompanying financial statements to present fairly the results of the interim periods. The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for our fiscal year ending May 31, 2019. Refer to the Revenue Recognition and Deferred Sales Commission sections below for accounting policy updates upon our adoption of Topic 606. We early adopted this new standard on June 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method, which requires us to account for ASU 2017-12 as of the date of adoption with any retrospective adjustments applicable to prior periods included as a cumulative-effect adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss and retained earnings. The adoption of ASU 2017-12 did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. As a result of the adoption of ASU 2017-12, we have elected to modify certain of our hedge documentation to exclude the fair value of certain components of the related hedging instrument in our assessment of hedge effectiveness. See Note 7 for additional explanations of the impact of adoption. We adopted ASU 2017-07 on a full retrospective basis, which resulted in the retrospective reclassification of $14 million and $27 million of non-service net periodic pension cost for the three and six months ended November 30, 2017, respectively, from line items within operating expenses into non-operating income, net. Upon adoption of ASU 2016-01, we have elected to measure the investments we hold in certain non-marketable equity securities in which we do not have a controlling interest or significant influence that have no readily determinable fair values at cost, less impairment, adjusted for observable price changes from orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. We adopted the guidance prospectively effective June 1, 2018, and there was no impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Except for the updates to our revenue recognition and deferred sales commission policies noted below, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies that were disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018 that have had a significant impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements or notes thereto as of and for the three and six months ended November 30, 2018. Information regarding our adoption and prospective impacts of the Tax Act on our tax and liquidity profile is included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. The net expense related to the enactment of the Tax Act has been accounted for during the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 based on provisional estimates pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. Subsequent adjustments, if any, related to our enactment of the Tax Act will be accounted for in the period such adjustments are identified. The provisional estimates incorporate, among other factors, assumptions made based on interpretations of the Tax Act and existing tax laws and a range of historical financial and tax-specific facts and information, including among other items, the amount of cash and other specified assets and liabilities of the company and its foreign subsidiaries on relevant dates and estimates of deferred tax balances pending finalization of those balances. As of November 30, 2018, we have accounted for GILTI in accordance with the period cost method. We have not finalized our policy election, and expect to do so after completion of our analysis of the GILTI provisions within the measurement period in accordance with SAB 118. License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud license and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option. License support contracts provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period and include internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net cloud license and on-premise license fees. Substantially all of our customers renew their license support contracts annually. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues primarily represent amounts earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware, application and industry-specific software products which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments. The vast majority of our cloud license and on-premise license arrangements include license support contracts, which are entered into at the customer’s option. Revenues from the sale of hardware products represent amounts earned primarily from the sale of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer servers, storage, and industry-specific hardware. Our hardware support offerings generally provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of the hardware products purchased and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees. Our consulting services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services. Our advanced customer support services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services. We offer these advanced customer support services to Oracle customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services. Education services include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our cloud, software and hardware products. Topic 606 is a single standard for revenue recognition that applies to all of our cloud, software, hardware and services arrangements and generally requires revenues to be recognized upon the transfer of control of promised goods or services provided to our customers, reflecting the amount of consideration we expect to receive for those goods or services. The timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to our customers. We record an unbilled receivable, which is included within accounts receivable on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing. We record deferred revenues on our condensed consolidated balance sheets when revenues are recognized subsequent to cash collection for an invoice. Our standard payment terms are generally net 30 days but may vary. Invoices for cloud license and on-premise licenses and hardware products are generally issued when the license is made available for customer use or upon delivery to the customer of the hardware product. Invoices for license support and hardware support contracts are generally invoiced annually in advance. Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS contracts are generally invoiced annually, quarterly or monthly in advance. Services are generally invoiced in advance or as the services are performed. Most contracts that contain a financing component are contracts financed through our financing division. The transaction price for a contract that is financed through our financing division is adjusted to reflect the time value of money and interest revenue is recorded as a component of non-operating income, net within our condensed consolidated statements of operations based on market rates in the country in which the transaction is being financed. Our arrangements generally do not include a general right of return relative to the delivered products or services. We recognize revenues net of any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. Revenue Recognition for Cloud Services
Revenues from cloud services provided on a subscription basis are generally recognized ratably over the contractual period that the services are delivered, beginning on the date our service is made available to our customers. We recognize revenue ratably because the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services throughout the contract period. Revenues from cloud services provided on a consumption basis, such as metered services, are generally recognized based on the utilization of the services by the customer. Revenue Recognition for License Support and Hardware Support
Oracle’s primary performance obligations with respect to license support contracts and hardware support contracts are to provide customers with technical support as needed and unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches during the term of the support period when they are available. Oracle is obligated to make the license and hardware support services available continuously throughout the contract period. Therefore, revenues for license support contracts and hardware support contracts are generally recognized ratably over the contractual periods that the support services are provided. Revenue Recognition for Cloud License and On-Premise License
Revenues from distinct cloud license and on-premise license performance obligations are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs. For usage-based royalty arrangements with a fixed minimum guarantee amount, the minimum amount is generally recognized upfront when the software is made available to the royalty customer. Revenue Recognition for Hardware Products
The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. Revenues for fixed price services are generally recognized over time applying input methods to estimate progress to completion. Revenues for consumption-based services are generally recognized as the services are performed. Judgment is required in determining whether each performance obligation is distinct. Oracle products and services generally do not require a significant amount of integration or interdependency. For substantially all performance obligations except cloud licenses and on-premise licenses, we are able to establish SSP based on the observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar customers. We typically establish a standalone selling price range for our products and services which is reassessed on a periodic basis or when facts and circumstances change. Our cloud licenses and on-premise licenses have not historically been sold on a standalone basis, as substantially all customers elect to purchase license support contracts at the time of a cloud license and on-premise license purchase. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net fees paid by the customer to access the license. As a result, the SSP for a cloud license and an on-premise license included in a contract with multiple performance obligations is determined by applying a residual approach whereby all other performance obligations within a contract are first allocated a portion of the transaction price based upon their respective SSPs, with any residual amount of transaction price allocated to cloud license and on-premise license revenues. Initial sales commissions for the majority of these aforementioned contracts are generally deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit that we estimate to be four to five years. We determine the period of benefit by taking into consideration the historical and expected durations of our customer contracts, the expected useful lives of our technologies, and other factors. Sales commissions for renewal contracts relating to our cloud-based arrangements are generally deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the related contractual renewal period, which is generally one to three years. Amortization of deferred sales commissions is included as a component of sales and marketing expenses in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Total capitalized costs to obtain a contract and related balances were not material as of or during each of the three and six months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Remaining Performance Obligations from Contracts with Customers
Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred revenues are reported net of related uncollected deferred revenues in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018. The amount of revenues recognized during the six months ended November 30, 2018 that were included in the opening deferred revenues balance as of May 31, 2018 was approximately $6.2 billion. Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods were immaterial during each of the three and six months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017. Impairment losses recognized on our receivables were immaterial in each of the three and six months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017. Remaining performance obligations represent contracted revenues that had not yet been recognized, and include deferred revenues; invoices that have been issued to customers but were uncollected and have not been recognized as revenues; and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenues in future periods. The volumes and amounts of customer contracts that we book and total revenues that we recognize are impacted by a variety of seasonal factors. In each fiscal year, the amounts and volumes of contracting activity and our total revenues are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. These seasonal impacts influence how our remaining performance obligations change over time. As of November 30, 2018, our remaining performance obligations were $30.1 billion, approximately 62% of which we expect to recognize as revenues over the next 12 months and the remainder thereafter. Refer to Note 10 for our discussion of revenues disaggregation. Acquisition Related and Other Expenses
Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts’ dates of execution. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Financing receivables sold to financial institutions were $216 million and $1.0 billion for the three and six months ended November 30, 2018, respectively, and $159 million and $1.0 billion for the three and six months ended November 30, 2017, respectively. ASU 2018-15 is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2018-15 on our consolidated financial statements. ASU 2018-14 is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, and earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2018-14 on our consolidated financial statements. ASU 2018-13 is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2018-13 on our consolidated financial statements. The guidance also requires certain new disclosures regardless of the election. ASU 2018-02 is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2018-02 on our consolidated financial statements. Topic 326 requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held. Topic 326 is effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, and earlier adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of Topic 326 on our consolidated financial statements. Topic 842 requires companies to generally recognize on the balance sheet operating and financing lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets. We expect to adopt Topic ASC 842 using the effective date as the date of our initial application of the standard. Consequently, financial information for the comparative periods will not be updated. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of Topic 842 on our consolidated financial statements. We currently expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon our adoption of Topic 842, which will increase our total assets and total liabilities that we report relative to such amounts prior to adoption. We have included the financial results of Aconex in our condensed consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. These results were not individually material to our condensed consolidated financial statements. The total preliminary purchase price for Aconex was approximately $1.2 billion, which consisted of approximately $1.2 billion in cash and $7 million for the fair values of stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed. In connection with the Aconex acquisition, we have preliminarily recorded $15 million of net liabilities and $377 million of identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values, and $859 million of residual goodwill. Goodwill generated from our acquisition of Aconex was primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition and is not expected to be tax deductible. These acquisitions were not significant individually or in the aggregate. The primary areas that remain preliminary relate to the fair values of intangible assets acquired, certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes and residual goodwill. We expect to continue to obtain information to assist us in determining the fair values of the net assets acquired during the measurement period. Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information
The unaudited pro forma financial information in the table below summarizes the combined results of operations for Oracle, Aconex and certain other companies that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2018 that were considered relevant for the purposes of unaudited pro forma financial information disclosure as if the companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal 2018. The unaudited pro forma financial information as presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have been achieved if the acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of fiscal 2018. The unaudited pro forma financial information for the three and six months ended November 30, 2018 presented the historical results of Oracle for the three and six months ended November 30, 2018, and certain other companies that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2019 based upon their respective previous reporting periods and the dates these companies were acquired by us, and the effects of the pro forma adjustments listed above. ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at their fair values, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact and consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the assets or liabilities, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of nonperformance. ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. An asset’s or a liability’s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Our marketable securities investments consist of Tier 1 commercial paper debt securities, corporate debt securities and certain other securities. Marketable securities as presented per our condensed consolidated balance sheets included securities with original maturities at the time of purchase greater than three months and the remainder of the securities were included in cash and cash equivalents. As of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018, approximately 23% and 26%, respectively, of our marketable securities investments mature within one year and 77% and 74%, respectively, mature within one to five years. Our valuation techniques used to measure the fair values of our instruments that were classified as Level 1 in the table above were derived from quoted market prices and active markets for these instruments that exist. Based on the trading prices of the $57.9 billion and $58.0 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that we had outstanding as of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using Level 2 inputs at November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018 were $57.1 billion and $59.0 billion, respectively. Total amortization expense related to our intangible assets was $424 million and $858 million for the three and six months ended November 30, 2018, respectively, and $400 million and $811 million for the three and six months ended November 30, 2017, respectively. Amounts also include any changes in goodwill balances for the period presented that resulted from foreign currency translations. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2019 Restructuring Plan are up to $432 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. We recorded $237 million of restructuring expenses in connection with the 2019 Restructuring Plan in the first half of fiscal 2019 and we expect to incur the majority of the estimated remaining $195 million through the end of fiscal 2020. Any changes to the estimates of executing the 2019 Restructuring Plan will be reflected in our future results of operations. Deferred services revenues include prepayments for our services business and revenues for these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. Deferred cloud license and on-premise license revenues typically resulted from customer payments that relate to undelivered products and services or specified enhancements. In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support performance obligations assumed from our acquired companies. We generally have estimated the fair values of these obligations assumed using a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The sum of the costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume these acquired obligations. These aforementioned fair value adjustments recorded for obligations assumed from our acquisitions reduced the cloud services and license support deferred revenues balances that we recorded as liabilities from these acquisitions and also reduced the resulting revenues that we recognized or will recognize over the terms of the acquired obligations during the post-combination periods. 7. We have designated these swap agreements as qualifying hedging instruments and are accounting for them as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815. As a result of our adoption of ASU 2017-12, we have elected to exclude the portion of the change in fair value of these swap agreements attributable to the related cross-currency basis spread in our assessment of hedge effectiveness. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we de-designated the foreign currency borrowings as a net investment hedge. We also held certain foreign currency contracts that were not designated as hedges pursuant to ASC 815. As of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018, the notional amounts of such forward contracts we held to purchase U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $2.8 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, and the notional amount of forward contracts we held to sell U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. The fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal as of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018. The cash flows related to these foreign currency contracts are classified as operating activities. Net gains or losses related to these forward contracts are included in non-operating income, net. The adoption of ASU-2017-12 did not have a material impact on our previously existing hedge designations. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018 for additional information regarding the purpose, accounting and classification of our derivative and non-derivative instruments. None of our derivative instruments are used for trading purposes. STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Common Stock Repurchases
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On September 17, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $12.0 billion. As of November 30, 2018, approximately $9.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time. In December 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per share of our outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on January 30, 2019 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 16, 2019. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Substantially all of the awards were issued as a part of our annual stock-based award process and are subject to service-based vesting restrictions. Our fiscal 2019 stock-based awards issuances were partially offset by forfeitures and cancellations of 22 million shares during the first half of fiscal 2019. The RSUs and SOs that were granted during the six months ended November 30, 2018 have vesting restrictions, valuations and contractual lives of a similar nature to those described in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. INCOME TAXES
Our effective tax rates for the periods presented are the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Tax Act was signed into law. The more significant provisions of the Tax Act as applicable to us are described in Note 1 under “Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017” above and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. During the first half of fiscal 2019, we recorded a benefit of $153 million in accordance with SAB 118 related to adjustments in our estimates of the one-time transition tax on certain foreign subsidiary earnings affected by the Tax Act. Our provision for income taxes for the first half of fiscal 2019 varied from the 21% U.S. statutory rate imposed by the Tax Act primarily due to earnings in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation, the Foreign Derived Intangible Income deduction, the tax effect of GILTI, and a reduction to our transition tax recorded consistent with the provision of SAB 118. Our effective tax rates were 15.9% and 13.5%, respectively, for the three and six months ended November 30, 2018, respectively, and 21.7% and 18.2%, respectively, for the three and six months ended November 30, 2017, respectively. Our net deferred tax assets were $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion as of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018, respectively. We believe that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized in the foreseeable future. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent upon our generation of sufficient taxable income in future years in appropriate tax jurisdictions to obtain benefit from the reversal of temporary differences, net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. The amount of net deferred tax assets considered realizable is subject to adjustment in future periods if estimates of future taxable income change. Domestically, U.S. federal and state taxing authorities are currently examining income tax returns of Oracle and various acquired entities for years through fiscal 2017. Our U.S. federal income tax returns have been examined for all years prior to fiscal 2007, and we are no longer subject to audit for those periods. Our U.S. state income tax returns, with some exceptions, have been examined for all years prior to fiscal 2004, and we are no longer subject to audit for those periods. Internationally, tax authorities for numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions are also examining returns affecting our unrecognized tax benefits. With some exceptions, we are generally no longer subject to tax examinations in non-U.S. jurisdictions for years prior to fiscal 1997. On July 27, 2015, in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, the U.S. Tax Court issued an opinion related to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement. Currently the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is reviewing the case, and a final decision has yet to be issued. At this time, the U.S. Department of the Treasury has not withdrawn the requirement to include stock-based compensation from its regulations. We have reviewed this case and its impact on Oracle and concluded that no adjustment to the consolidated financial statements is appropriate at this time. We will continue to monitor ongoing developments and potential impacts to our consolidated financial statements. We are under audit by the IRS and various other domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to income tax and indirect tax matters and are involved in various challenges and litigation in a number of countries, including, in particular, Australia, Brazil, India, Korea, Spain and the United Kingdom, where the amounts under controversy are significant. In some, although not all, cases, we have reserved for potential adjustments to our provision for income taxes and accrual of indirect taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities or final outcomes in judicial proceedings, and we believe that the final outcome of these examinations, agreements or judicial proceedings will not have a material effect on our results of operations. If events occur which indicate payment of these amounts is unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in the recognition of benefits in the period we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimates of the federal, state, and foreign income tax liabilities and indirect tax liabilities are less than the ultimate assessment, it could result in a further charge to expense. We believe that we have adequately provided under GAAP for outcomes related to our tax audits. However, there can be no assurances as to the possible outcomes or any related financial statement effect thereof. SEGMENT INFORMATION
ASC 280, Segment Reporting, establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. We are organized by line of business and geographically. While our CODMs evaluate results in a number of different ways, the line of business management structure is the primary basis for which the allocation of resources and financial results are assessed. The footnote information below presents the financial information provided to our CODMs for their review and assists our CODMs with evaluating the company’s performance and allocating company resources. We have three businesses— cloud and license, hardware and services —each of which is comprised of a single operating segment. All three of our businesses market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs. Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through cloud and on-premise deployment models including our cloud services and license support offerings; and our cloud license and on-premise license offerings. Cloud services and license support revenues are generated from offerings that are typically contracted with customers directly, billed to customers in advance, delivered to customers over time with our revenue recognition occurring over the contractual terms, and renewed by customers upon completion of the contractual terms. Cloud services and license support contracts provide customers with access to the latest updates to the applications, platform and infrastructure technologies as they become available and for which the customer contracted and related technical support services over the contractual term. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments. We generally recognize revenues at the point in time the software is made available to the customer to download and use, which typically is immediate upon signature of the license contract. Our hardware business provides Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware-related software to support diverse IT environments. Our hardware business also offers hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of their hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Our services business provides services to customers and partners to help maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies. We do not track our assets for each business. Consequently, it is not practical to show assets by operating segment. See Note 6 for an explanation of these adjustments and the table below for a reconciliation of our total operating segment revenues to our total consolidated revenues as reported in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, the margins reported above do not reflect amortization of intangible assets, acquisition related and other expenses, restructuring expenses, stock-based compensation, interest expense or certain other non-operating income, net. See Note 6 for an explanation of these adjustments and this table for a reconciliation of our total operating segment revenues to our total consolidated revenues as reported in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Disaggregation of Revenues
We have considered information that is regularly reviewed by our CODMs in evaluating financial performance, and disclosures presented outside of our financial statements in our earnings releases and used in investor presentations to disaggregate revenues to depict how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows are effected by economic factors. The principal category we use to disaggregate revenues is the nature of our products and services as presented in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. The following table is a summary of our total revenues by geographic region. The relative proportion of our total revenues between each geographic region as presented in the table below was materially consistent across each of our operating segments’ revenues for the periods presented. Applications ecosystem revenues represent the sum of applications related cloud services and license support revenues; and applications licenses revenues. Platform and infrastructure revenues represent the sum of platform and infrastructure related cloud services and license support revenues; and platform and infrastructure licenses revenues. EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income for the period by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income for the period by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock-based awards, stock options, and shares issuable under the employee stock purchase plan as applicable pursuant to the treasury stock method. Such shares could be dilutive in the future. 12. HP sought a judicial declaration of the parties’ rights and obligations under the Hurd Settlement Agreement and other equitable and monetary relief. Oracle answered the complaint and filed cross-claims. The case proceeded to a jury trial in May 2016. On June 30, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of HP on its claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and against Oracle on its cross-claims. The jury awarded HP $3.0 billion in damages. Under the court’s rulings, HP is entitled to post-judgment interest, but not pre-judgment interest, on this award. After the trial court denied Oracle’s motion for a new trial, Oracle filed a notice of appeal on January 17, 2017. On February 2, 2017, HP filed a notice of appeal of the trial court’s denial of pre-judgment interest. Oracle has posted a bond for the amounts owing. No amounts have been paid or recorded to our results of operations. We continue to believe that we have meritorious defenses against HP’s claims, and we intend to present these defenses to the appellate court. Our opening brief is due March 7, 2019. We cannot currently estimate a reasonably possible range of loss for this action due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the appeal process and the nature of the claims. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of the appeal process related to this action is uncertain. It is possible that the resolution of this action could have a material impact on our future cash flows and results of operations. The second case was brought by an alleged stockholder of Oracle, purportedly on Oracle’s behalf. The suit was brought against all the then-current members and one former member of our Board of Directors, and Oracle as a nominal defendant. Plaintiff alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by causing Oracle to agree to purchase NetSuite Inc. at an excessive price. On August 9, 2017, the court consolidated the two derivative cases. In a September 7, 2017 order, the court appointed plaintiff’s counsel in the second case as lead plaintiffs’ counsel and designated the July 18, 2017 complaint as the operative complaint. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss on October 27, 2017, and after briefing and argument, the court denied this motion on March 19, 2018. The parties stipulated that all of the individual defendants, except for our Chief Technology Officer and one of our Chief Executive Officers, should be dismissed from this case without prejudice, and on March 28, 2018, the court approved this stipulation. On May 4, 2018, the remaining defendants answered plaintiff’s complaint. Three outside directors serve on the SLC. On July 24, 2018, the court entered an order granting the SLC’s motion to stay this case for six months, and ordering the SLC to provide a status report by November 30, 2018. The SLC provided a status report to the court on November 29, 2018. While Oracle continues to evaluate these claims, we do not believe this litigation will have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Other Litigation
We are party to various other legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings and claims that relate to acquisitions we have completed or to companies we have acquired or are attempting to acquire. While the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that the outcome of any of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will result in losses that are materially in excess of amounts already recognized, if any. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
We begin Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our businesses and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. Our applications, platform and infrastructure offerings are delivered to customers worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models, including cloud-based, on-premise, or hybrid IT models, which enable customer choice and flexibility. We market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs. Substantially all license support customers renew their support contracts with us upon expiration in order to continue to benefit from technical support services and the periodic issuance of unspecified updates and enhancements for which current license support customers are entitled to receive. The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed. Our cloud license and on-premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs. The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over their contractual terms. Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase license support contracts, as described above. Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy. In recent periods, customer demand has increased for our Oracle Cloud Services. To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications, platform and infrastructure licenses and license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads. We expect these trends to continue. Our cloud and license business’ revenues growth is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; our acquisitions; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amount and volume of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations. We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services. Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term. The historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery, over those four quarterly periods. The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products and associated software products such as Oracle Solaris. Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are entered into at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual terms. We generally expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our cloud and license business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. Our quarterly hardware revenues are difficult to predict. We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience and broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings include consulting services, advanced customer support services and education services and represented 8% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and license and hardware businesses. Acquisitions
Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our recent acquisitions. We believe that we can fund our future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. GAAP, as set forth within the ASC, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent that there are differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require management’s judgment in its application. There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information about our adoption of Topic 606 and its impacts on our consolidated financial statements. Except for the adoption of Topic 606, there have been no changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2018. Information regarding our adoption and the prospective impacts of the Tax Act on our tax and liquidity profile is included in Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and also in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. Impacts of Acquisitions
The comparability of our operating results in the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018 was impacted by our recent acquisitions. When material, we may also provide quantitative disclosures related to such acquired products and services. We also present a GAAP-based discussion below for substantially all of the other expense items as presented in our condensed consolidated statement of operations that are not directly attributable to our three businesses. In addition, we discuss below the results of each our three businesses—cloud and license, hardware and services—which are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting. The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs. Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our three businesses. We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each business in the discussion below. Consistent with our internal management reporting processes, the below operating segment presentation includes revenues adjustments related to cloud services and license support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements. Refer to “Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges” below for additional discussion of these items and Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of our total operating segment revenues as presented in the discussion below to total revenues as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Refer to “Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges” below for additional discussion of certain of these items and Note 10 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of total segment margin as presented in the discussion below to total income before provision of income taxes as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. As a result, each businesses’ revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the first half of fiscal 2019 and first half of fiscal 2018 using the May 31, 2018 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. The constant currency increases in our cloud and license revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud deployment models and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud and license support contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services. The constant currency decreases in our hardware revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were due to a reduction in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud and license technologies. The constant currency decreases in our services revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were attributable to declines in our consulting services and education services revenues. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 11% and 35%, respectively, 44% and 40%, respectively, and 45% and 25%, respectively, to the growth in our second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 total revenues, respectively. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total operating expenses increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to higher cloud services and license support expenses and higher cloud and license related sales and marketing expenses, both of which resulted primarily from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increases in our cloud and license business’ revenues; increased research and development expenses; and higher amortization of intangible assets. These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by certain expense decreases during the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods, which primarily consisted of lower restructuring expenses; lower hardware products costs and a related decrease in hardware sales and marketing costs, both of which aligned to lower hardware revenues; and lower general and administrative expenses due primarily to lower professional fees incurred. In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented primarily due to the increases in total revenues. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial information, we believe that the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. To the extent customers for which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts’ values over the respective contracts’ renewal periods. Business combination accounting rules generally require us to eliminate these acquired capitalized sales commissions balances as of the acquisition date and our post-combination GAAP sales and marketing expenses generally do not reflect the amortization of these acquired deferred sales commissions balances. This adjustment is intended to include, and thus reflect, the full amount of amortization related to such balances as though the acquired companies operated independently in the periods presented. Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in management’s discussion below under “Restructuring Expenses”, Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. Income tax effects for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 were calculated based on the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to the items within the table above and resulted in an effective tax rate of 25.2% and 25.1%, respectively, instead of 21.7% and 18.2%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects for stock-based compensation expense and acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets. Cloud and License Business
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through various deployment models including license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and cloud license and on-premise license offerings. Our cloud services deliver certain of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support, and revenues are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market certain of our offerings through indirect channels. Costs associated with our cloud and license business are included in cloud services and license support expenses, and sales and marketing expenses. These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs. Such revenue adjustments were included in our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs. See “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above for additional information. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above. In constant currency, our total applications revenues and our total platform and infrastructure revenues each grew during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, each relative to the corresponding prior year periods, as customers continued to deploy our applications technologies and platform and infrastructure technologies through a wide array of different deployment models that we offer to enable customer choice. The Americas region contributed 21% and 38%, respectively, the EMEA region contributed 37% and 34%, respectively, and the Asia Pacific region contributed 42% and 28%, respectively, of the constant currency revenues growth for this business during the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019, respectively. In constant currency, total cloud and license expenses increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to higher sales and marketing expenses and higher cloud services and license support expenses, both of which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount. In addition, our constant currency cloud services and license support expenses increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to higher technology infrastructure expenses that supported the growth in our revenues. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license segment’s total margin increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the fiscal 2019 increases in revenues for this segment, while total fiscal 2019 margins as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly due to expenses growth for this segment. Hardware Business
Our hardware business’ revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, server, storage, and industry-specific hardware. The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers and we also market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force. Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information” above. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware revenues decreased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to lower hardware products revenues and, to a lesser extent, lower hardware support revenues. The decreases in hardware products revenues in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the fiscal 2018 periods presented, were primarily attributable to our continued emphasis on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of hardware support contracts sold in recent periods. These constant currency fiscal 2019 hardware revenues decreases were partially offset by certain fiscal 2019 hardware revenues increases related to our Oracle Engineered Systems offerings, primarily Oracle Exadata. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware expenses decreased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower hardware products costs and lower sales and marketing employee related expenses, which aligned to lower hardware revenues. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as percentage of revenues for our hardware segment increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to lower expenses. Services Business
We offer services to customers and partners to help to maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies. Services revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed. The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses. Also excludes certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information” above. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to revenue declines in our consulting services and education services. Constant currency decreases in our services revenues in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions were partially offset by a constant currency services revenues increase in the EMEA region during the fiscal 2019 periods presented. In constant currency, total services expenses increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to an increase in headcount related expenses associated with our consulting offerings. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to the decreases in revenues and increased expenses for this business. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. We amortize our intangible assets over, and monitor the appropriateness of, the estimated useful lives of these assets. We also periodically review these intangible assets for potential impairment based upon relevant facts and circumstances. Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report has additional information regarding our intangible assets and related amortization. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated generally upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those restricted stock-based awards and stock options. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2018 periods presented primarily related to our 2017 Restructuring Plan, which is substantially complete. Our management approved, committed to and initiated these plans in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2019 Restructuring Plan are up to $432 million, of which approximately $195 million were remaining as of November 30, 2018, and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred through an expected end date of fiscal 2020. Our estimated costs are subject to change in future periods. This fiscal second quarter 2019 decrease was partially offset by higher interest income earned during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 resulting from higher interest rates on our portfolio of marketable debt securities. In our third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Tax Act was signed into law. The more significant provisions of the Tax Act as applicable to us are described in Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and are also described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2018. Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal 2019 periods presented varied from the 21% U.S. statutory rate imposed by the Tax Act due primarily to earnings in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation, the Foreign Derived Intangible Income deduction, the tax effect of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, and a reduction to our transition tax recorded consistent with the provisions of SAB 118. Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal 2018 periods presented varied from the tax computed at the previous U.S. federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to certain earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation, and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by an unfavorable shift of earnings weighted to jurisdictions with higher tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations, by adverse rulings in tax related litigation, or by shortfalls in stock-based compensation realized by employees relative to stock-based compensation that was recorded for book purposes, among others. These favorable tax expense items were partially offset by lower realized excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation in the first half of fiscal 2019 relative to the corresponding prior year period. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by the favorable effects to our net current assets resulting from our net income during the first half of fiscal 2019 and, to a lesser extent, proceeds from stock option exercises. Our working capital may be impacted by some or all of the aforementioned factors in future periods, the amounts and timing of which are variable. Marketable securities consist of Tier-1 commercial paper debt securities, corporate debt securities and certain other securities. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at November 30, 2018 in comparison to May 31, 2018 was primarily due to $20.0 billion of repurchases of our common stock, the repayment of $2.5 billion of borrowings, payments of cash dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures. These cash outflows during the first half of fiscal 2019 were partially offset by certain cash inflows, primarily cash inflows generated by our operations and cash inflows from stock option exercises during the first half of fiscal 2019. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies during the first half of fiscal 2019, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased on a net basis as of November 30, 2018 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2018 balance sheet date. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts’ terms, which are generally one year in length. Over the course of a fiscal year, we also have historically generated cash from the sales of new licenses, cloud services, hardware offerings and other services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware products, taxes and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased modestly in the first half of fiscal 2019, relative to the corresponding prior year period, primarily due to certain cash unfavorable changes in working capital balances, primarily cash unfavorable changes associated with income taxes, which was largely attributable to an installment payment made pursuant to the transition tax provisions of the Tax Act. These unfavorable cash changes during the first half of fiscal 2019 were partially offset by higher net income during the first half of fiscal 2019. Net cash provided by investing activities was $5.5 billion in the first half of fiscal 2019 compared to $7.5 billion of net cash used for investing activities in the first half of fiscal 2018. The increase in net cash provided by investing activities during the first half of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in purchases of marketable securities and other investments. Net cash used for financing activities in the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared to the first half of fiscal 2018 due primarily to increased stock repurchases as we repurchased $20.0 billion of common stock in the first half of fiscal 2019 compared to $2.5 billion in the first half of fiscal 2018. We believe that free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts’ dates of execution. We generally record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. We financed $247 million and $442 million, respectively, or approximately 12% and 20%, respectively, of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues in the first half of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements. In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Restricted Stock-Based Awards and Stock Options
Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2015 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.5% per year. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all restricted stock-based awards vest and all stock options are exercised. Of the outstanding stock options at November 30, 2018, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, approximately 23.2% have exercise prices higher than the market price of our common stock on such date. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program. However, we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At November 30, 2018, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding restricted stock-based awards and unexercised stock options, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including stock options where the strike price is higher than the market price as of such date, was 10.0%. Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
There were no significant changes to our quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk during the first half of fiscal 2019. Please refer to Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018 for a more complete discussion of the market risks we encounter. Item 4. We implemented internal controls to ensure we adequately evaluated our contracts and properly assessed the impact of the new accounting standard related to revenue recognition on our financial statements to facilitate its adoption on June 1, 2018. There were no significant changes to our internal control over financial reporting due to the adoption of the new standard. However, our management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well-conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Item 1A. Risk Factors
In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. The risks discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results. The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be insignificant also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future. Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On September 17, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $12.0 billion. As of November 30, 2018, approximately $9.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time. Other Information
On December 17, 2018, we issued a press release announcing our financial results for our fiscal second quarter ended November 30, 2018 furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to a Form 8-K. The press release stated that our two cloud ERP businesses, Fusion ERP and NetSuite ERP, delivered a revenue growth rate of 32% in the quarter, which was the non-GAAP growth rate. The correct GAAP percentage growth rate is 34%.