See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and
“emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive in nature, or that depend upon or refer to future events
or conditions or otherwise contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be preceded by, followed by or include the words
“expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “strives,” “estimates,” “will,” “should,” “is designed to” and similar
expressions. We claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for all forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our
current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about our business that could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to
differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. We have no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or risks, except to the extent required by applicable securities
laws. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. New information, future events or risks could cause the
forward-looking events we discuss in this Quarterly Report not to occur. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our expectations only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. However, we believe that the disclosures herein are adequate to ensure the information presented is not misleading. These
unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended May 31, 2017. We believe that all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal recurring items, have been
included in the accompanying financial statements to present fairly the results of the interim periods. The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any
subsequent interim period or for our fiscal year ending May 31, 2018. Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. There
have been no significant changes in our reported financial position or results of operations and cash flows as a result of our adoption of new accounting pronouncements or changes to our significant accounting policies that were disclosed in our
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. Because we have a May 31 fiscal year end, our fiscal 2018 blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate will be approximately 29%. The net expense related to the enactment of the Act has been accounted for
during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 based on provisional estimates pursuant to the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118. Subsequent adjustments, if any, will be accounted for in the period such adjustments are
identified. The provisional estimates incorporate, among other factors, assumptions made based on interpretations of the Act and existing tax laws, and a range of historical and forecasted financial and
tax-specific facts and information, including, without limitation, the amount of cash and other specified assets anticipated to be held by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries on relevant dates and
estimates of deferred tax balances during interim periods pending finalization of those balances. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts’ dates of
execution. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Financing receivables sold to
financial institutions were $360 million and $1.3 billion for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018, respectively, and $296 million and $1.3 billion for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2017,
respectively. The guidance also requires certain new disclosures regardless of the election. ASU 2018-02 is
effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2018-02 on our consolidated financial statements. ASU 2017-12 is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and
earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2017-12 on our consolidated financial statements. ASU 2017-07 is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal
2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2017-07 on our consolidated financial statements. ASU 2016-16 is
effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a modified retrospective basis, and earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2016-16 on our
consolidated financial statements. ASU 2016-13 is effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, and earlier adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of
fiscal 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements. ASU 2016-01 is effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2019, and earlier adoption is not permitted except for certain provisions. We currently do not expect that our pending adoption of ASU 2016-01 will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. Topic 842 requires companies to generally recognize on the balance sheet operating and financing lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets. Topic 842 is
effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020 on a modified retrospective basis, and earlier adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of Topic 842 on our consolidated financial statements. We
currently expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets
upon our adoption of Topic 842, which will increase our total assets and total liabilities that we report relative to such amounts prior to adoption. Topic 606 supersedes nearly all existing
revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The core principle of Topic 606 is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those
goods or services. Topic 606 defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than are required under existing GAAP,
including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation, among others. Topic 606
also provides guidance on the recognition of costs related to obtaining customer contracts. The accounting for the recognition of costs related to obtaining customer contracts under Topic 606 is significantly different than our
current capitalization policy. The adoption of Topic 606 will result in additional types of costs that will be capitalized. Additionally, it is possible that amounts capitalized will be amortized over a period longer than our current policy. We are continuing to evaluate the impact to our
revenues and costs related to our pending adoption of Topic 606 and our preliminary assessments are subject to change. 2. We acquired NetSuite to, among other things, expand our cloud software as a service offerings with a complementary set of cloud ERP and related cloud software applications for
customers. The total purchase price for NetSuite was approximately $9.1 billion, which
consisted of approximately $9.0 billion in cash and $78 million for the fair values of restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed. In allocating the purchase price based on estimated fair values, we recorded approximately
$6.7 billion of goodwill, $3.2 billion of identifiable intangible assets and $763 million of net tangible liabilities. Goodwill generated from our acquisition of NetSuite was primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after
the acquisition. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017 for additional information regarding our
acquisition of NetSuite. These acquisitions were not significant
individually or in the aggregate. We have included the financial results of the acquired companies in our condensed consolidated financial statements from their respective acquisition dates, and the results from each of these companies were not
individually material to our condensed consolidated financial statements. The total of the purchase prices, certain of which were preliminary, for these acquisitions was approximately $3.0 billion, which consisted of approximately
$3.0 billion in cash and $13 million for the fair values of restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed. As of February 28, 2018, we recorded $243 million of net tangible assets and $948 million of identifiable
intangible assets, based on their estimated fair values, and $1.8 billion of residual goodwill related to our fiscal 2017 acquisitions. The primary areas of those preliminary estimates
that are not yet finalized related to certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, identifiable intangible assets, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes and residual goodwill. The unaudited pro forma financial information as presented below is
for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have been achieved if the acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of fiscal 2017. The unaudited pro forma financial information for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018 presented the historical results
of Oracle for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018 as we did not complete any material acquisitions during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from
selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at their fair values, we
consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact and consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the assets or liabilities, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of
nonperformance. ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs
and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. An asset’s or a liability’s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. As of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017, approximately 28% and 32%, respectively, of our marketable securities investments mature within one year and 72% and 68%, respectively, mature within one to
six years. Our valuation techniques used to measure the fair values of our marketable securities that were classified as Level 1 in the table above were derived from quoted market prices and active markets for these instruments that exist. Based on the trading prices of the $60.9 billion
and $54.0 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that were outstanding as of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using
Level 2 inputs at February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017 were $62.0 billion and $56.5 billion, respectively. 4. The interest is payable semi-annually. We may redeem some or all of the senior notes of each series prior to their maturity, subject to certain restrictions, and
the payment of an applicable make-whole premium in certain instances. The senior notes rank pari passu with any other existing
and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Oracle Corporation. All existing and future indebtedness and liabilities of the subsidiaries of Oracle Corporation are or will be effectively senior to the senior notes. We were in compliance
with all debt-related covenants at February 28, 2018. There have been no other significant changes in our notes payable
or other borrowing arrangements that were disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. 7. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, our
management supplemented the 2017 Restructuring Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to take. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan are up to $1.1 billion and will be recorded to the
restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. We recorded $516 million of restructuring expenses in connection with the 2017 Restructuring Plan in the first nine months of
fiscal 2018 and we expect to incur the majority of the estimated remaining $112 million through the end of fiscal 2018. Any changes to the estimates of executing the 2017 Restructuring Plan will be reflected in our future results of operations. 8. Deferred services revenues include prepayments for our services business and revenues for these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud SaaS, cloud PaaS and IaaS and software license updates and product support obligations, among others, assumed from our
acquired companies. We generally have estimated the fair values of these obligations assumed using a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair
value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The sum of the costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume these acquired
obligations. These aforementioned fair value adjustments recorded for obligations assumed from our acquisitions reduced the cloud SaaS, cloud PaaS and IaaS, software license updates and product support, and hardware deferred revenues balances that
we recorded as liabilities from these acquisitions and also reduced the resulting revenues that we recognized or will recognize over the terms of the acquired obligations during the post-combination periods. 9. We also held certain foreign currency contracts that were not designated as hedges pursuant to ASC 815. As of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017, the notional amounts of such forward contracts
we held to purchase U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $4.5 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, and the notional amount of forward contracts we held to sell U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major
international currencies were $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. The fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal as of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017. The cash flows related to
these foreign currency contracts are classified as operating activities. Net gains or losses related to these forward contracts are included in non-operating income, net. None of our derivative instruments are used for trading purposes. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, our Board of Directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $24.0 billion. As of February 28, 2018, approximately
$22.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or
discontinued at any time. In March 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per share of our outstanding common stock. The dividend
is payable on May 1, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 17, 2018. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our
Board of Directors. Substantially all of the awards were issued as a part of our annual stock-based award process and are
subject to service-based vesting restrictions, with the PSOs primarily having performance-based and market-based vesting restrictions. Our fiscal 2018 stock-based awards issuances were partially offset by forfeitures and cancellations of
16 million shares during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. The RSUs and SOs that were granted during the nine months
ended February 28, 2018 have vesting restrictions, valuations and contractual lives of a similar nature to those described in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. The fiscal 2018 PSOs granted consist of
seven numerically equivalent vesting tranches that potentially may vest. Each of six of the individual vesting tranches are governed by an “all or nothing” vesting schedule requiring the attainment of both a performance metric and a market
capitalization metric, which may be achieved at any time, in order for each individual tranche to fully vest during a five year performance period, assuming continued employment and service through the date the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors certifies that the last of the two metrics for a particular tranche is attained. The seventh vesting tranche requires attainment of a market-based metric to be achieved at any time during a five year performance period and continued
employment and service through the vesting date. The PSOs have contractual lives of eight years in comparison to the ten year contractual lives for the fiscal 2018 SOs issued. Stock-based compensation expense is to be recognized for each of the six
performance-based and market-based tranches once each vesting tranche becomes probable of achievement over the longer of the estimated implicit service period for performance-metric achievement or derived service period for market-based metric
achievement. We have preliminarily estimated service periods for those tranches that have been deemed probable of achievement to be approximately three to five years. Stock-based compensation for the market-based tranche will be recognized using the
derived service period for the market-based metric achievement, which we have initially estimated to be approximately three years. In the third quarter of
fiscal 2018 the Act was signed into law. The more significant provisions of the Act as applicable to us are described in Note 1 above under “Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act”. Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal
2018 periods presented varied from the 21% U.S. statutory rate imposed by the Act due primarily to the January 1, 2018 effective date of the Act, the impacts of the Act upon adoption, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit,
settlements with tax authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Prior to the January 1, 2018 effective date of the Act, our provision for income taxes historically differed from
the tax computed at the previous U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to certain earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax
authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Our effective tax rates were 222.0% and 95.2% for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018, respectively, and 17.0% and 21.3%
for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2017, respectively. Our net deferred tax assets were $1.6 billion
and $683 million as of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017, respectively. We believe that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized in the foreseeable future. Realization of our net deferred tax
assets is dependent upon our generation of sufficient taxable income in future years in appropriate tax jurisdictions to obtain benefit from the reversal of temporary differences, net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. The
amount of net deferred tax assets considered realizable is subject to adjustment in future periods if estimates of future taxable income change. Domestically, U.S. federal and state taxing authorities are currently examining income tax returns of Oracle and various acquired entities for years through fiscal 2016. Our U.S. federal income tax
returns have been examined for all years prior to fiscal 2007, and we are no longer subject to audit for those periods. Our U.S. state income tax returns, with some exceptions, have been examined for all years prior to fiscal 2004, and we are no
longer subject to audit for those periods. Internationally, tax authorities for numerous
non-U.S. jurisdictions are also examining returns affecting our unrecognized tax benefits. With some exceptions, we are generally no longer subject to tax examinations in
non-U.S. jurisdictions for years prior to fiscal 1997. A final decision has yet to be issued by the Tax Court due to other outstanding issues related to the case. At this time, the U.S.
Department of the Treasury has not withdrawn the requirement to include stock-based compensation from its regulations. We have reviewed this case and its impact on Oracle and concluded that no adjustment to the consolidated financial statements is
appropriate at this time. We will continue to monitor ongoing developments and potential impacts to our consolidated financial statements. We are under audit by the IRS and various other domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to income tax and indirect tax matters and are involved in various challenges and litigation in a number
of countries, including, in particular, Australia, Brazil, India, Korea, Spain and the United Kingdom, where the amounts under controversy are significant. In some, although not all, cases, we have reserved for potential adjustments to our provision
for income taxes and accrual of indirect taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities or final outcomes in judicial proceedings, and we believe that the final outcome of these examinations,
agreements or judicial proceedings will not have a material effect on our results of operations. If events occur which indicate payment of these amounts is unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in the recognition of benefits in
the period we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimates of the federal, state, and foreign income tax liabilities and indirect tax liabilities are less than the ultimate assessment, it could result in a further charge to
expense. We believe that we have adequately provided under GAAP for outcomes related to our tax audits. However, there can be
no assurances as to the possible outcomes or any related financial statement effect thereof. 12. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial
information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. We are organized by line of business and geographically. While our CODMs evaluate results in a number of different ways, the line of business management structure is the primary basis for which the
allocation of resources and financial results are assessed. In recent periods, customer demand has increased at a greater rate for cloud-based IT deployment models relative to on-premise IT deployment models. Our CODMs view the operating results of our three businesses and allocate resources in a manner that is consistent with the changing market dynamics that we have experienced. As a result, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we updated our
operating segments. The footnote information below presents the financial information provided to our CODMs for their review and assists our CODMs with evaluating the company’s performance and allocating company resources. We have three businesses—cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services—each of
which is comprised of a single operating segment. Our cloud and on-premise software
line of business markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud offerings and software offerings. Our Oracle Cloud SaaS and Cloud PaaS and IaaS offerings deliver certain of
our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we host, manage and support. Our IaaS offerings also include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide
comprehensive software and hardware management, maintenance and security services for on-premise, cloud-based or hybrid IT infrastructures. Customers that license our software have the option to purchase software license updates and product support contracts, which provide customers with
rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases, patch releases, internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel during the support period. Our hardware business provides Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, virtualization software, operating
systems including the Oracle Solaris operating system and management software to support diverse IT environments. Our hardware business also includes hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that
are essential to the functionality of the hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Our services business provides services to customers and partners to help maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle
applications, platform and infrastructure technologies. We do not track our assets for each business. Consequently, it is not
practical to show assets by operating segment. See Note 8 for an explanation of these adjustments and the table below for a reconciliation of our total operating segment revenues to our total consolidated
revenues as reported in our consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, the margins reported above do not reflect amortization of intangible assets, acquisition related and other expenses, restructuring expenses, stock-based
compensation, interest expense or certain other non-operating income, net. See Note 8 for an explanation of these adjustments and this table for a reconciliation of our total operating segment revenues to our total consolidated
revenues as reported in our consolidated statements of operations. 13. Such shares could be dilutive in the future. HP sought a judicial declaration of the
parties’ rights and obligations under the Hurd Settlement Agreement and other equitable and monetary relief. Oracle
answered the complaint and filed a cross-complaint, which was amended on December 2, 2011. The amended cross-complaint alleged claims including violation of the Lanham Act. Oracle alleged that HP had secretly agreed to pay Intel to continue to
develop and manufacture the Itanium microprocessor, and had misrepresented to customers that the Itanium microprocessor had a long roadmap, among other claims. Oracle sought equitable rescission of the Hurd Settlement Agreement, and other equitable
and monetary relief. The court bifurcated the trial and tried HP’s causes of action for declaratory relief and promissory
estoppel without a jury in June 2012. A jury trial began on May 23, 2016. The jury awarded HP damages in the amount of $3.0 billion,
and HP is entitled to post-judgment interest on this award. On August 30, 2016, the court denied HP’s motion for pre-judgment interest. Judgment was entered on October 20, 2016. Oracle posted
certain court-mandated surety bonds with the court in order to proceed with its motion for a new trial and entered into related indemnification agreements with each of the surety bond issuing companies. Oracle filed a motion for a new trial on
November 14, 2016, which was denied. Oracle filed its notice of appeal on January 17, 2017, specifying that it was
appealing the trial court’s Phase One Ruling and Phase Two Jury Verdict. On February 2, 2017, HP filed a notice of appeal of the trial court’s denial of pre-judgment interest. No amounts have
been paid or recorded to our results of operations either prior to or subsequent to the Phase One Ruling or Phase Two Jury Verdict. We continue to believe that we have meritorious defenses against HP’s claims, and we intend to present these
defenses to the appellate court. We cannot currently estimate a reasonably possible range of loss for this action due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the appeal process and the nature of the
claims. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of the appeal process related to this action is uncertain. It is possible that the resolution of this action could have a material impact to our future cash flows and results of
operations. On July 19,
2017, defendants moved to dismiss this complaint. On July 18, 2017, a second stockholder derivative lawsuit was filed in
the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, brought by another alleged stockholder of Oracle, purportedly on Oracle’s behalf. The suit is brought against all current members and one former member of our Board of Directors, and Oracle as a
nominal defendant. Plaintiff alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by causing Oracle to agree to purchase NetSuite at an excessive price. On August 9, 2017, the court consolidated the two derivative cases, and vacated the
scheduling order relating to defendants’ motion to dismiss the first case. In a September 7, 2017 order, the court appointed plaintiff’s counsel in the second case as lead plaintiffs’ counsel and designated the July 18, 2017
complaint as the operative complaint. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss on October 27, 2017, and the plaintiffs filed an opposition on December 15, 2017. The defendants filed their reply on January 9, 2018, and the court heard
oral argument on January 25, 2018. On March 19, 2018, the court denied this motion. The court ordered supplemental briefing on the issue whether all of the defendants, except for our Chief Technology Officer and one of our Chief Executive
Officers, should be dismissed from this case. While Oracle continues to evaluate these claims, we do not believe this
litigation will have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. While the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that the outcome
of any of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will result in losses that are materially in excess of amounts already recognized, if any. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide
a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition. Our applications, platform and infrastructure offerings are delivered to customers worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models including cloud based, on-premise or hybrid, which enable customer choice and flexibility. We market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a sales
force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs. We also offer
Oracle Applications, Oracle Database and Oracle Fusion Middleware software, among others; hardware products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage and industry-specific products, among others; and related support and services. Our comprehensive and fully integrated stack of Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings integrate the software, hardware
and services on the customers’ behalf in IT environments that we deploy, support and manage for the customer. Our integrated Oracle Cloud offerings are designed to be rapidly deployable to enable customers shorter time to innovation; easily
maintainable to reduce integration and testing work; connectable among differing deployment models to enable interchangeability and extendibility between cloud and on-premise IT environments; compatible to
easily move workloads between on-premise IT environments and the Oracle Cloud; cost-effective by requiring lower upfront customer investment; and to be secure, standards-based and reliable. We are a leader in
the core technologies of cloud IT environments, including database and middleware software as well as enterprise applications, virtualization, clustering, large-scale systems management and related infrastructure. Our products and services are the
building blocks of our Oracle Cloud services, our partners’ cloud services and our customers’ cloud IT environments. In addition to providing a broad spectrum of cloud offerings, we develop and sell our applications, platform and infrastructure products
and services to our customers worldwide for use in cloud-based IT environments and other IT environments. An important element of our corporate strategy is to continue our investments in, and innovation with respect to, our products and services
that we offer through our cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services businesses. We have a deep understanding as to how applications, platform and infrastructure technologies interact and function
with one another within IT environments. We focus our development efforts on improving the performance, security, operation and integration of these differing technologies to make them more cost-effective and easier to deploy, manage and maintain
for our customers and to improve their computing performance relative to our competitors. After the initial purchase of Oracle products and services, our customers can continue to benefit from our research and development efforts and deep IT
expertise by electing to purchase and renew Oracle support offerings for their software and hardware deployments, which may include unspecified product enhancements that we periodically deliver to our products, and by renewing their cloud SaaS, PaaS
and IaaS contracts with us. As customers deploy with the Oracle Cloud, many are adopting a hybrid IT model whereby certain of
their IT instances are deployed using the Oracle Cloud, while other of their IT instances are deployed using Oracle on-premise offerings, with both instances designed with capabilities to be managed as though
they are a single instance. Our Oracle Cloud at Customer program provides another deployment option for customers to utilize the Oracle Cloud Machine and Oracle Database Exadata Cloud Machine to bring certain Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS
offerings to a customer’s on-premise IT environment to meet data sovereignty, data residency, data protection and regulatory business policy requirements, among others, while benefiting from the many
advantages of a cloud service. We believe that our acquisitions enhance the products and services that we can offer to customers, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to accelerate innovation, grow our revenues and earnings, and increase stockholder value. In
recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire
companies, products, services and technologies to further our corporate strategy. In recent periods, customer demand has
increased at a greater rate for cloud-based IT deployment models relative to on-premise IT deployment models. To address this demand, we have increased our investments in and focus on the development,
marketing and sale of our cloud-based applications, platform and infrastructure technologies resulting in higher growth of our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues as customer preferences have pivoted to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments
and as customers migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing on-premise workloads. We expect these trends to continue. We believe that offering customers broad, comprehensive, flexible and
interoperable deployment models for our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies is important to our growth strategy and better address customer needs relative to our competitors, many of whom provide fewer offerings and more
restrictive deployment models. We enable our customers to evolve and transform to substantially any IT deployment model at whatever pace is most appropriate for them. As a result, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we updated our operating segments. The discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations presented below provides the current view that is
utilized by our CODMs to evaluate performance and determine resource allocations and the prior periods’ results presented below were recast to conform to the current periods’ presentation. In addition to the discussion below, Note 12 of
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, provides additional information related to our businesses and operating segments, including the recasting of our segments’ financial information
from prior periods to conform to the current year’s presentation. Our Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings deliver
applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that we host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Our IaaS offerings also
include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management, maintenance and security services for on-premise, cloud-based, or hybrid IT infrastructure
for a stated period. The majority of our SaaS, PaaS and IaaS arrangements have a duration of 12 to 36 months and we strive to renew these contracts when they are eligible for renewal. We offer customers the ability to license our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware
and Java, among others, for cloud-based and other IT environments. Our new software license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized when unrestricted access to the software license is granted provided all other
revenue recognition criteria are met. The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software licenses revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud-based
offerings in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the subscription period. New software license customers have the option to purchase software license updates and product support contracts, which grant rights to unspecified product
upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Our software license updates and product support contracts are generally one year in duration and are generally
billed in advance of the service being performed and are generally recognized as revenues as the software support services are delivered. In recent periods, we have placed significant strategic emphasis on growing our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues, which represented 16% of our total consolidated revenues during each of
the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, and 13% and 12% of our total consolidated revenues during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively. This emphasis has affected the growth of our new software
licenses revenues and, to a lesser extent, has also affected the growth of our software license updates and product support revenues. We expect these trends will continue with the mix of this business’ revenues continuing to shift toward
cloud-based services. Substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support contracts when they acquire on-premise new software licenses and renew their software
license updates and product support contracts when eligible in order to benefit from Oracle’s research and development investments that are utilized as a part of unspecified periodic software updates that may be released and that customers with
current software support contracts are entitled to. We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues, which should enable us to continue to make
investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and on-premise software products and services. Our cloud and on-premise software business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to
the historical upward trend of our new software licenses revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect
channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products, such as Oracle
Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally
recognized as revenues as the hardware support services are delivered. Our quarterly hardware revenues are difficult to predict. We believe that our services are
differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience, and broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings include consulting services, advanced support services and education services and
represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and on-premise software and hardware
businesses. Our services revenues are impacted by our strategy for and the competitive position of our services; customer demand for our cloud and on-premise software and hardware offerings and the associated
services for these offerings; our strategic emphasis on growing our cloud revenues; certain of our acquisitions; general economic conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; personnel reductions in our customers’ IT departments; and tighter
controls over discretionary spending. In recent years, we have invested
billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies, including NetSuite Inc. in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in
furtherance of our corporate strategy. Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our recent acquisitions. We believe that we can fund our
future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any
potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. GAAP, as set forth within the ASC, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates,
judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent that there are differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and
actual results, our financial statements will be affected. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require management’s judgment in its application. There are also areas in which
management’s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, there were no significant changes to our critical
accounting policies and estimates. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal
year ended May 31, 2017 provides a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Because we have a May 31 fiscal year end, our fiscal 2018 blended U.S. federal
statutory tax rate will be approximately 29%. We expect the enactment of the Act to generally provide greater flexibility
for us to access and utilize our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries as of January 1, 2018, as well as for prospective assets generated by these foreign subsidiaries’ future
earnings and profits. We believe we have sufficient cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances, as well as access to other capital resources, if required, to settle the $7.6 billion one-time
transition tax described above. 118. Subsequent adjustments, if any, will be accounted for in the period such adjustments are identified. The
provisional estimates incorporate, among other factors, assumptions made based on interpretations of the Act and existing tax laws, and a range of historical and forecasted financial and tax-specific facts and
information, including, without limitation, the amount of cash and other specified assets anticipated to be held by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries on relevant dates and estimates of deferred tax balances during interim periods pending
finalization of those balances. When material, we may also provide quantitative
disclosures related to such acquired products and services. In each fiscal year, our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. The operating margins
of our businesses, in particular, our cloud and on-premise software business and hardware business, are generally affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues as certain expenses within our
cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. We also present a GAAP-based discussion below for substantially all of the other expense items as presented in our condensed consolidated
statement of operations that are not directly attributable to our three businesses. The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is
presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs. Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our
three businesses. We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each business in the discussion below. Consistent with our internal management reporting processes, the below operating segment presentation includes revenues adjustments related to cloud and on-premise
software contracts and hardware support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to
business combination accounting requirements. Refer to “Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges” below for additional discussion of these items and Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included
elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of our total operating segment revenues as presented in the discussion below to total revenues as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all
periods presented. Refer to “Supplemental Disclosure
Related to Certain Charges” below for additional discussion of certain of these items and Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of
total segment margin as presented in the discussion below to total income before provision of income taxes as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. As a result, each businesses’ revenues
and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding
the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior
period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017 using
the May 31, 2017 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. The constant currency increases in our cloud and on-premise software revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was attributable to growth in our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues,
growth in our software license updates and product support revenues, and revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions. The constant currency decrease in our hardware revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to reductions in our
hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues as we continued to place emphasis on the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies. The constant currency decrease in our services revenues during the
third quarter of fiscal 2018 was attributable to declines in services revenues across all of our major services categories. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 52%, 28% and 20%, respectively, to the growth
in our third quarter of fiscal 2018 total revenues. Excluding the effects of unfavorable foreign currency rate variations of 3
percentage points, our total operating expenses decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower hardware products costs and a related decrease in sales and marketing costs, both of which aligned to lower hardware revenues;
lower software license updates and product support expenses related primarily to a reduction in certain jurisdictional specific statutory obligation expenses; lower research and development expenses primarily related to lower employee expenses; and
a decrease in restructuring expenses. These constant currency expense decreases were partially offset by higher expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 related to higher cloud SaaS expenses and cloud PaaS and IaaS expenses resulting
primarily from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increases in our cloud SaaS revenues and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues; and higher general and administrative expenses that were primarily related to higher professional
fees that were legal related. Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate variations, our total operating expenses increased during the first nine months of fiscal
2018 primarily due to higher cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS expenses due to similar reasons as noted above; higher sales and marketing expenses; increased stock–based compensation expenses; increased restructuring expenses; and higher
intangible asset amortization due to additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our acquisition of NetSuite and other recently acquired companies. These constant currency expense increases were partially
offset by constant currency expense decreases during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 related to lower constant currency hardware expenses and lower constant currency software license updates and product support expenses, primarily due to
similar reasons as noted above. In constant currency, our total operating margin increased during the first nine months of
fiscal 2018 due to the increase in our total revenues and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues remained flat. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS, and hardware revenue amounts as presented in the above table that would have otherwise been recorded
by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations. To the extent customers for which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full
contracts’ values over the respective contracts’ renewal periods. Business combination accounting rules generally require us to eliminate these acquired capitalized sales commissions balances as of the acquisition date and our post-combination GAAP sales and marketing expenses generally do not
reflect the amortization of these acquired deferred sales commissions balances. This adjustment is intended to include, and thus reflect, the full amount of amortization related to such balances as though the acquired companies operated
independently in the periods presented. Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in the discussion below under “Restructuring Expenses”, Note 7 of Notes to Condensed
Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
May 31, 2017. The income tax effects presented for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017 were calculated reflecting effective tax rates of 21.6% and 24.1%, respectively, instead of 17.0% and 21.3%, respectively, which
represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects of acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets, and the net
tax effects of stock-based compensation. New software licenses revenues represent fees earned from granting customers
licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and other IT environments and are generally recognized when unrestricted access to the software license is granted
provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Software license updates and product support revenues are typically generated through the sale of software support contracts related to new software licenses purchased by our customers at
their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our
offerings through indirect channels. Costs associated with our cloud and on-premise software business are included in cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS expenses, software license updates and product support expenses,
and sales and marketing expenses. These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS offerings and software support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales
force for the sale of our cloud and software offerings, and marketing program costs. Such revenue adjustments were included in our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs. See “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information”
above for additional information. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses,
which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above. The increases in our constant currency cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues during the fiscal 2018 periods presented were primarily due to the continued strategic emphasis we placed on selling, marketing and growing our cloud
offerings and we expect these revenue trends will continue. The increases in constant currency software license updates and product support revenues during the fiscal 2018 periods presented were a result of substantially all customers electing to
purchase software support contracts in conjunction with their purchase of new software licenses, and due to the renewal of substantially all of the software support customer base eligible for renewal during the trailing 4-quarter period. The Americas region contributed 48% and 68%, respectively, the EMEA region contributed 28% and 21%, respectively, and the Asia Pacific region contributed 24% and 11%, respectively, of the constant
currency revenues growth for this business during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively. In
constant currency, total cloud and on-premise software expenses increased in the fiscal 2018 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to higher cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS
expenses resulting primarily from increased headcount and technology infrastructure expenses that were incurred to support the related cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues increases; and higher sales and marketing expenses primarily resulting
from increased headcount. These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by a decrease in software license updates and product support expenses during the fiscal 2018 periods presented, which were primarily related to a reduction in
certain jurisdictional specific statutory obligation expenses. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud
and on-premise software segment’s total margin increased during the fiscal 2018 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to the increases in revenues during the
fiscal 2018 periods presented. In constant currency, total margin as a percentage of revenues increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the increase in revenues, and was flat in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are
generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers
and we also market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force. Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce
these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of
materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the
sales of our hardware offerings. Such revenue adjustments were included in our operating
segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs. See “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above for additional information. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses,
which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information” above. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware revenues decreased in the third quarter
and first nine months of fiscal 2018, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to our continued emphasis on the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of
certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of customers that purchased hardware support contracts during the fiscal 2018 periods. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware expenses decreased in the fiscal 2018 periods presented, relative to the fiscal 2017 periods presented, due primarily to lower hardware
products costs and lower employee related expenses, which aligned to lower hardware revenues. Services revenues are generally recognized as the services are performed. The cost of
providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses. Also excludes certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our
operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information” above. Constant currency decreases in our services revenues in
the Americas and EMEA regions were partially offset by a constant currency services revenues increase in the Asia Pacific region. Total services expenses were flat in constant currency in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the corresponding prior year period. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a
percentage of total services revenues decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the decrease in revenues for this business. Constant currency increases in our services revenues primarily from our recent acquisitions were offset by decreases in other services revenues, primarily in the Americas and EMEA regions. In constant currency, total services expenses were flat during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, while total margin and
total margin as a percentage of revenues declined slightly. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. These fiscal 2018 cost savings
were partially offset by investments in the development of our cloud-based offerings and by higher stock-based compensation during the fiscal 2018 periods relative to the corresponding prior year periods. We amortize our intangible assets over, and monitor the appropriateness of, the estimated useful lives of
these assets. We also periodically review these intangible assets for potential impairment based upon relevant facts and circumstances. Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report has
additional information regarding our intangible assets and related amortization. These decreases during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were partially offset by additional amortization
from intangible assets that we acquired since the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested
restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated generally upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those restricted stock-based awards and stock options. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also
include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. Our management approved, committed to and initiated the 2017 Restructuring Plan in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, our management supplemented the 2017
Restructuring Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to take. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan are up to $1.1 billion and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item
within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. The total estimated remaining restructuring costs associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan were approximately $112 million as of February 28, 2018 and the
majority of the remaining costs are expected to be incurred through the end of fiscal 2018. Our estimated costs are subject to change in future periods. The majority of the initiatives undertaken by our 2017 Restructuring Plan were effected to implement our continued move toward developing, marketing and selling our cloud-based offerings. Cost savings that are expected to be realized pursuant to our 2017 Restructuring Plan initiatives are primarily
expected to be offset by investments in resources and geographies that best address the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based offerings as customer preferences pivot to the Oracle Cloud. In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Act was signed into law. The more significant provisions of the Act as applicable to us are described
above under “Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act”. Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal 2018 periods presented varied from the 21% U.S. statutory rate imposed by the Act due primarily to the January 1, 2018
effective date of the Act, the impacts of the Act upon adoption, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation, and the U.S. domestic production activity
deduction. Prior to the January 1, 2018 effective date of the Act, our provision for income taxes historically differed from the tax computed at the previous U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to certain earnings considered as
indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Future
effective tax rates could be adversely affected by an unfavorable shift of earnings weighted to jurisdictions with higher tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations, by adverse rulings in tax related litigation, or by shortfalls
in stock-based compensation realized by employees relative to stock-based compensation that was recorded for book purposes, among others. These unfavorable impacts to our provision for income taxes were partially offset by higher
fiscal 2018 realized excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation expense. These favorable working capital movements were partially offset by cash used for repurchases of our
common stock, cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Our working capital may be impacted by some or all of the aforementioned factors in future periods, the
amounts and timing of which are variable. Marketable securities consist of Tier-1 commercial paper debt securities, corporate debt securities and certain other securities. These cash inflows were partially offset by certain cash outflows, primarily the repayment of $7.3 billion of borrowings, repurchases of our common stock,
payments of cash dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures. As a result of the enactment of the Act
on January 1, 2018, we expect greater flexibility in accessing and utilizing our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, as well as prospective assets generated by these foreign
subsidiaries’ future earnings and profits. We believe we have sufficient cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances and access to additional capital resources, if required, to settle the $7.6 billion one-time transition tax described under “Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” above. The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries increased on a net basis as of February 28, 2018 relative
to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2017 balance sheet date. Days sales
outstanding, which we calculate by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 36 days at February 28, 2018 compared with 44 days at May 31, 2017. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the
impact of any revenue adjustments resulting from business combinations that reduced our acquired cloud, on-premise software and hardware obligations to fair value. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of
the contracts’ terms, which are generally one year in length. Over the course of a fiscal year, we also have historically generated cash from the sales of new software licenses, cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings, hardware offerings and
services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware products, taxes and leased facilities. Net cash used for investing activities decreased in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 relative to the first nine months of fiscal 2017
due primarily to a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, partially offset by an increase in cash used to purchase marketable securities and other investments, net of proceeds received from sales and maturities. Net cash used for financing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $4.5 billion in comparison to net cash provided by financing activities of $5.8 billion in the first nine
months of fiscal 2017. The decrease in financing activities cash flows during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 relative to the first nine months of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to debt related cash flows for which we had $2.6 billion of
cash inflows from borrowings, net of repayments, in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 in comparison to $9.8 billion of cash inflows form borrowings, net of repayments, in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 and an increase in repurchases of
common stock during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. We believe
that free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an
alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a
non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts’ dates of execution. We generally record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of
financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. We financed $673 million and $509 million, respectively, or approximately 18% and 13%, respectively, of our new software licenses
revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, our Board of Directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $24.0 billion. As of February 28, 2018, approximately $22.8 billion remained available for stock
repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for
acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to
a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time. We issued the senior notes for general corporate purposes, which may include stock repurchases, payment of cash dividends on our common
stock, repayment of indebtedness and future acquisitions. Additionally, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we repaid $3.5 billion of senior notes pursuant to their terms. Additional details regarding the senior notes are included in
Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. There have been no other significant changes in our notes payable or other borrowing arrangements that were disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual
obligation requirements, including the $7.6 billion one-time transition tax described under “Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” above. In addition, we believe that we could fund our
future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional
securities. We recognize
that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative
potential dilution since June 1, 2014 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.2% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new restricted stock-based awards or stock options granted and
assumed, net of restricted stock-based awards and stock options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted-average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all
restricted stock-based awards vest and all stock options are exercised. Of the outstanding stock options at February 28, 2018, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, 16.6% have exercise prices
higher than the market price of our common stock on such date. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program. However, we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases
in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At February 28, 2018, the maximum potential dilution
from all outstanding restricted stock-based awards and unexercised stock options, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including stock options where the strike price is higher than the market price as of such
date, was 9.8%. Item 3. Please refer to Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2017 for a more complete
discussion of the market risks we encounter. Item 4. However, our management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how
well-conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits
of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons,
by collusion of two or more people or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events and there can be no assurance that any design
will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the
inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. The risks discussed in our Annual Report on Form
10-K could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results. The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks
facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be insignificant also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future. Item 2. On December 14, 2017 and February 2, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved
expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $24.0 billion. As of February 28, 2018, approximately $22.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as
our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time
to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.