See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. The Company also has operations in Europe. Paychex, a Delaware corporation formed in 1979, reports as one segment. Substantially all of the Company’s revenue is generated within the U.S. The Company also generates revenue within Europe, which represented approximately one percent of the Company’s total revenue for both the three and six months ended November 30, 2018 and was less than one percent of the Company's total revenue for both the three and six months ended November 30, 2017. Long-lived assets in Europe were approximately 10% of total long-lived assets of the Company as of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statement presentation. The consolidated financial statements include the consolidated accounts of the Company with all intercompany transactions eliminated. 2014-09 and had no material effect on reported consolidated earnings. For workers' compensation insurance, reserves are established to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims up to per occurrence liability limits. HROI’s maximum individual claims liability was $0.5 million and $0.8 million under its workers’ compensation insurance policies for the annual periods ended September 30, 2018 and ending September 30, 2019, respectively. The Company's maximum individual claims liability, excluding HROI, was $0.3 million under both its calendar 2018 and 2017 minimum premium insurance plan policies. HROI’s maximum individual claims liability was $0.3 million under its minimum premium insurance plan policies for the annual periods ended June 30, 2018 and ending June 30, 2019. In addition, the Company also provides self-insured dental and vision plans. Accordingly, final claim settlements may vary from the present estimates, particularly with workers' compensation insurance where those payments may not occur until well into the future. The Company regularly reviews the adequacy of its estimated insurance reserves. Adjustments to previously established insurance reserves are reflected in the results of operations for the period in which such adjustments are identified. Such adjustments could be significant, reflecting any combination of new and adverse or favorable trends. The Company accounts for all stock-based awards to employees and directors as compensation costs in the consolidated financial statements based on their fair values measured as of the date of grant. These costs are recognized over the requisite service period. Stock-based compensation costs recognized were $11.9 million and $22.8 million for the three and six months ended November 30, 2018, respectively, as compared with $10.4 million and $19.1 million for the three and six months ended November 30, 2017. The Company has updated its control framework for new internal controls and made changes to existing controls related to the new standard. 2014-09 do not materially impact the timing or the amount of revenue the Company recognizes on an annual basis in its Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. However, it does have an impact on the timing and amount of revenue the Company recognizes on a quarterly basis due to changes in the way it accounts for certain revenues where performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time. The provisions of the new standard have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The primary impact of adopting the new standard is on the Company’s treatment of certain costs to obtain and fulfill contracts. In relation to those items, the new standard resulted in the Company deferring additional costs on its Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortizing them to the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income over the estimated average life of the client. Refer to Note B for further details. Long-term deferred costs are separately presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets contained in this Form 10-Q. 2018-18 was issued to resolve the diversity in practice concerning the manner in which entities account for transactions based on their assessment of the economics of a collaborative arrangement. This guidance is effective for public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. This guidance is applicable to the Company’s fiscal year beginning June 1, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. This guidance is applicable to the Company’s fiscal year beginning June 1, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. This guidance is applicable to the Company’s fiscal year beginning June 1, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements. ASU No. 2016-02 is effective for public business entities for annual periods, including interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company will adopt ASU No. 2016-02 in its fiscal year beginning June 1, 2019, and currently anticipates using the alternative transition method provided by the FASB in ASU No. The Company is still in the process of quantifying the impact the new standard will have on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, the Company does not anticipate that the new standard will have a material impact on its Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. In addition, the Company is in the process of completing its evaluation of available practical expedients and the impact of the new guidance on its business processes, systems, and controls. The Company’s service revenue is largely attributable to processing services where the fee is based on a fixed amount per processing period or a fixed amount per processing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed. The Company’s contracts generally have a term of 30 days as they are cancellable at any time by either party with 30-days’ notice of termination. Sales and other applicable taxes are excluded from service revenue. The Company believes these revenue categories depict how the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of its revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors. Delivery service revenue is recognized at a point in time following the delivery of payroll checks, reports, quarter-end packages, and tax returns to the Company’s clients. Clients can select services on an á la carte basis or as part of various product bundles. The Company’s offerings often leverage the information gathered in its base payroll processing service, allowing it to provide comprehensive outsourcing services covering the HCM spectrum. Management Solutions revenue is generally recognized over time as services are performed and the customer simultaneously receives and controls the benefits from these services. The Company serves as a co-employer of its clients’ employees, offers health insurance coverage to client employees, and assumes the risks and rewards of workers’ compensation insurance and certain health insurance benefit offerings. PEO revenue is recognized over time as the services are performed and the customer simultaneously receives and controls the benefits from these services. PEO revenue is reported net of certain direct pass-through costs billed and incurred, which include payroll wages, payroll taxes, including state unemployment insurance, and certain health insurance benefit premiums, primarily costs related to our guaranteed cost benefit plans. For guaranteed cost benefit plans where the Company does not retain risk, it is acting as the agent for revenue recognition purposes and revenues are recorded net of the premiums paid to the insurance carrier. Approximately 60% of the client worksite employees that participate in the Company’s benefit plans are enrolled in guaranteed cost benefit plans where the Company does not retain risk. For workers’ compensation and certain benefit plans where the Company retains risk, it is acting as the principal for revenue recognition purposes and revenues and costs are recorded on a gross basis. Approximately 40% of the client worksite employees that participate in the Company’s health insurance offerings are enrolled in these benefit plans. Insurance offerings include property and casualty coverage such as workers’ compensation, business-owner policies, commercial auto, and health and benefits coverage, including health, dental, vision, and life. Insurance services revenue is recognized over time as services are performed and the customer simultaneously receives and controls the benefits from these services. Therefore, the Company does not recognize a contract asset or liability resulting from the timing of revenue recognition and invoicing. Therefore, the Company defers revenue associated with these performance obligations, which exceed one year, and subsequently recognizes these as future services are provided, over approximately three to four years. The Company expects to recognize $12.8 million of deferred revenue related to material right performance obligations in the remainder of fiscal 2019, $18.5 million of such deferred revenue during our fiscal year ending May 31, 2020, and $14.7 million of such deferred revenue thereafter. Prior to the adoption of ASU No. 2014-09 these costs were deferred up to an amount equal to the set-up fee revenue deferred and any costs in excess of that amount were recognized as expense when incurred. The Company also recognizes an asset for the costs to fulfill a contract with a client if the costs are specifically identifiable, generate or enhance resources used to satisfy future performance obligations, and are expected to be recovered. The Company has determined that substantially all costs related to implementation activities are administrative in nature and meet the capitalization criteria under ASC 340-40. These capitalized costs to fulfill a contract principally relate to upfront direct costs that are expected to be recovered and enhance our ability to satisfy future performance obligations. Deferred costs to obtain and fulfill contracts are reported in the prepaid expenses and other current assets and long-term deferred costs line items on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Amortization expense related to costs to obtain and fulfill a contract are included in operating and selling, general, and administrative expenses in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. The Company regularly reviews its deferred costs and did not recognize an impairment loss during the six months ended November 30, 2018. For the six months ended November 30, 2018 and November 30, 2017, 0.6 million shares and 0.8 million shares, respectively, of the Company’s common stock were issued in connection with the exercise or vesting of stock-based awards. In addition, for the six months ended November 30, 2017, 0.6 million shares of the Company’s common stock were issued in relation to an immaterial business acquisition completed in August 2017. The purpose of the program is to manage common stock dilution. No shares were repurchased during the three months ended November 30, 2018 and November 30, 2017. During the six months ended November 30, 2018 and November 30, 2017, the Company repurchased 0.5 million shares for $32.8 million and 1.6 million shares for $94.1 million, respectively. All shares of common stock repurchased were retired. For the six months ended November 30, 2018 and November 30, 2017, the Company declared quarterly dividends to its shareholders of $1.12 per share and $1.00 per share, respectively. Oasis is the nation’s largest privately owned PEO, serving more than 8,400 clients across all 50 states with its HR solutions, employee benefits, payroll administration, and risk management services. The acquisition was financed through a combination of cash on hand of approximately $400.0 million and temporary borrowings under existing credit facilities of approximately $800.0 million. The Company is in the process of securing permanent financing for the acquisition. The allocation of aggregate purchase price to assets acquired and liabilities assumed is expected to largely consist of intangibles and goodwill. Goodwill in excess of the existing tax basis is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes and is attributable to the future economic benefits we expect to achieve and expected synergies to be realized when combining the operations of this acquisition into our existing operations. The Company is in the process of completing its accounting and valuations of Oasis and accordingly, more detailed disclosures will be provided in future filings. Supplemental pro forma information has not been provided as the Company has deemed it impracticable given the timing of the closing of the transaction and availability of Oasis financial information. Upon closing, Lessor became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Lessor is a market-leading provider of payroll and HCM software solutions headquartered in Denmark and serving clients in Northern Europe. The purchase price was $162.5 million, net of $13.4 million in cash acquired. Goodwill in the amount of $111.5 million was recorded as a result of the acquisition, which is not tax-deductible. The purchase accounting is provisional and subject to change, pending completion of a final valuation of Lessor. However, further changes to goodwill resulting from the acquisition are not anticipated to be material to the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. HROI is a national PEO that provides HR solutions to small- and medium-sized businesses in more than 35 states. The acquisition expanded the Company’s presence in the PEO industry. The purchase price was $75.4 million and was comprised of $42.2 million of cash plus $33.2 million issued in the form of Paychex common stock. Goodwill in the amount of $51.1 million was recorded as a result of the acquisition, which is not tax-deductible. The Company concluded that these acquisitions were not material to its results of operations and financial position. Therefore, pro forma financial information has been excluded. Included in the net unrealized loss totals as of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018 were 1,090 and 970 available-for-sale securities in an unrealized loss position, respectively. The Company believes that the investments held as of November 30, 2018 that had gross unrealized losses of $46.2 million were not other-than-temporarily impaired. The Company believes that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with contractual terms, and that the unrealized losses on these securities were due to changes in interest rates and were not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. A majority of the securities in an unrealized loss position as of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018 held an AA rating or better. The Company does not intend to sell these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believes that it is not more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell these investments prior to that time. The Company’s assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in the Company’s strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment. On the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income, realized gains and losses from funds held for clients are included in interest on funds held for clients and realized gains and losses from corporate investments are included in investment income, net. Realized gains were insignificant for the three and six months ended November 30, 2018 and November 30, 2017. Realized losses were $0.4 million for both the three and six months ended November 30, 2018. There were no realized losses for the three and six months ended November 30, 2017. Expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. Although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature. Marketable securities included in funds held for clients and corporate investments consist primarily of securities classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Money market securities, which are cash equivalents, are valued based on quoted market prices in active markets. Cash equivalents also include commercial paper and time deposits, which are considered Level 2 investments as they are valued based on similar, but not identical, instruments in active markets. Available-for-sale securities, including municipal bonds, variable rate demand notes, corporate bonds, and U.S. government agency securities, are included in Level 2 and are valued utilizing inputs obtained from an independent pricing service. The Company has not adjusted the prices obtained from the independent pricing service because it believes that they are appropriately valued. The related liability is reported as other long-term liabilities. The mutual funds are valued based on quoted market prices in active markets. Furthermore, although the Company believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting date. Balances will vary based on the timing of the last payroll processed and the end of the reporting period. Capitalized costs related to internally developed software that has not yet been placed in service is included in construction in progress. The Company completed the purchase of five buildings during the three months ended November 30, 2017 for a combined cost of approximately $34.7 million and placed approximately $16.0 million in escrow for building renovations, which are nearly complete. All costs previously included in the Company’s construction in progress balance related to the multi-building campus have been capitalized as of November 30, 2018. As of May 31, 2018, $32.0 million was included in the Company’s construction in progress balance. The Company had a remaining balance in escrow of $1.5 million and $14.2 million as of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018, respectively. Changes in goodwill balances are the result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Those reclassification adjustments are reflected in interest on funds held for clients on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. Upon the expiration date, any borrowings outstanding will mature and be payable on such date. In addition to overnight borrowings, during the six months ended November 30, 2017, the Company borrowed $100.0 million for a three-day period at a weighted-average interest rate of 4.25%. Subsequent to November 30, 2018, the Company borrowed $400.0 million due on February 20, 2019 at a LIBOR-based interest rate of 3.50% as it secures permanent financing for the acquisition of Oasis. In addition to overnight borrowings, during the three and six months ended November 30, 2017, the Company borrowed $300.0 million for seven days and $75.0 million for eleven days at weighted-average LIBOR-based interest rates of 2.13% and 2.19%, respectively. Subsequent to November 30, 2018, the Company borrowed $400.0 million due on February 20, 2019 at a LIBOR-based interest rate of 3.50% as it secures permanent financing for the acquisition of Oasis. There were no borrowings outstanding under this credit facility as of May 31, 2018. The Company was in compliance with all of these covenants as of November 30, 2018. The letters of credit expire at various dates between April 2019 and July 2020. No amounts were outstanding on these letters of credit as of or during the six months ended November 30, 2018 and November 30, 2017, or as of May 31, 2018. The Company had outstanding commitments to purchase approximately $4.4 million and $6.7 million of capital assets as of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018, respectively. Historically, there have been no material losses related to such guarantees. In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors, which require the Company to defend and, if necessary, indemnify these individuals for certain pending or future claims as they relate to their services provided to the Company. The estimated loss exposure under these insurance arrangements is recorded in other current liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Historically, the amounts accrued have not been material and were not material as of November 30, 2018. The Company also maintains insurance coverage in addition to its purchased primary insurance policies for gap coverage for employment practices liability, errors and omissions, warranty liability, theft and embezzlement, cyber threats, and acts of terrorism; and capacity for deductibles and self-insured retentions through its captive insurance company. These include disputes or potential disputes related to breach of contract, tort, patent, breach of fiduciary duty, employment-related claims, tax claims, and other matters. However, legal matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists the possibility that the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position and results of operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded. The decrease in the effective income tax rate for the six months ended November 30, 2018 was partially impacted by certain discrete items related to the revaluation of deferred taxes. In addition, the effective income tax rates in these periods were impacted by the recognition of a net discrete tax benefit related to employee stock-based compensation payments. The net discrete tax benefit impacted the three months ended November 30, 2018 by less than $0.01 per diluted share and the three months ended November 30, 2017 by $0.01 per diluted share. The net discrete tax benefit impacted the six months ended November 30, 2018 and November 30, 2017 by $0.01 per diluted share and $0.02 per diluted share, respectively. In December 2017, the staff of the SEC issued guidance under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. The SEC also issued rules that would allow for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act to finalize the related tax impacts. As of November 30, 2018, the Company’s accounting for the impact of the Tax Act is complete. The focus of this review is on the underlying business reasons for material changes and trends affecting our revenue, expenses, net income, and financial condition. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words and phrases as “we expect,” “expected to,” “estimates,” “estimated,” “overview,” “current outlook,” “we look forward to,” “would equate to,” “projects,” “projections,” “projected,” “projected to be,” “anticipates,” “anticipated,” “we believe,” “believes,” “could be,” “targeting,” and other similar words or phrases. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements we make regarding operating performance, events, or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, including statements relating to our outlook, revenue growth, earnings, earnings-per-share growth, or similar projections. Instead, they are based only on our current beliefs, expectations, and assumptions regarding the future of our business, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy, and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict, many of which are outside our control. Our actual results and financial conditions may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Therefore, you should not place undue reliance upon any of these forward-looking statements. The information provided in this Form 10-Q is based upon the facts and circumstances known at this time, and any forward-looking statements made by us in this Form 10-Q speak only as of the date on which they are made. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements after the date of filing this Form 10-Q with the SEC to reflect events or circumstances after such date, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our business strategy focuses on flexible, convenient service; industry-leading, integrated technology; providing a comprehensive suite of value-added HCM services; solid sales execution; continued service penetration; and engaging in strategic acquisitions, when possible. We believe that success in our mission to be a leading provider of HCM services by being an essential partner with America's businesses will lead to strong, long-term financial performance. Clients can select services on an á la carte basis or as part of various product bundles. Our offerings often leverage the information gathered in our base payroll processing service, allowing us to provide comprehensive outsourcing services covering the HCM spectrum. Clients with more complex payroll and benefits needs are serviced through our Paychex Flex Enterprise solution set, which offers an integrated suite of HCM solutions through the Paychex Flex platform, or through our legacy platform. Our SaaS solution through Paychex Flex Enterprise integrates payroll processing with HR management, employee benefits administration, time and labor management, applicant tracking, and onboarding solutions. Paychex Flex Enterprise allows clients to choose the services and software they need to meet the complexity of their business and have them integrated through one HCM solution. We also offer comprehensive solutions to help clients navigate the Affordable Care Act. Paychex HR Essentials is an ASO product that provides support to our clients over the phone or online to help manage employee-related topics. We serve as a co-employer of our clients’ employees, offer health care coverage to PEO client employees, and assume the risks and rewards of workers’ compensation insurance and certain health insurance offerings. Insurance offerings include property and casualty coverage, such as workers’ compensation; business-owner policies; commercial auto; and health and benefits coverage, including health, dental, vision, and life. Total revenue and total service revenue each increased 7% for the second quarter. Management Solutions revenue and PEO and Insurance Services revenue increased by 5% and 15%, respectively, for the second quarter. This acquisition will significantly advance our leadership position in HR outsourcing and reinforces our commitment to meet the HR technology and advisory needs of our clients and their employees. We believe this acquisition will strengthen our PEO growth strategy, gain scale of new products with our insurance partners, provide a new client base to offer Paychex retirement and time and attendance products, and augment our experienced management team. On December 20, 2018 we completed this acquisition for a purchase price of approximately $1.0 billion, net of cash acquired. Interest rates available on high-quality financial instruments are gradually increasing. Our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios earned an average rate of return of 1.9% for the second quarter, compared to 1.5% for the same period last year. In December 2018, the Federal Funds rate was raised an additional 25 basis points to a range of 2.25% to 2.50%. We are continually engaged in developing enhancements to our various software platforms to meet the changing requirements of our clients and the marketplace. Concentrated efforts remain on the continued enhancement of Paychex Flex, our robust, cloud-based HCM platform, which allows direct client access to payroll, HR, and benefits information in a streamlined and integrated approach to workplace management. In September 2018, we launched Paychex Learning to enable employers to foster a learning environment that provides employees with everything from business acumen to tactical skills to HR compliance. Refer to the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section within the discussion of “Results of Operations” of this Item 2 for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and a reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures of net income and diluted earnings per share. Short-term borrowings totaled $57.3 million as of November 30, 2018. Our investment strategy continues to focus on protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. We invest predominately in municipal bonds – including general obligation bonds; pre-refunded bonds, which are secured by a U.S. government escrow; and essential services revenue bonds – along with U.S. government agency securities and corporate bonds. We limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair values are less sensitive to interest rate changes. We believe that our investments as of November 30, 2018 that were in an unrealized loss position were not other-than-temporarily impaired, nor has any event occurred subsequent to that date that would indicate any other-than-temporary impairment. Cash flows from operations were $497.2 million for the six months, a decrease of 4% from the same period last year. Historically, we have funded our operations, capital purchases, business acquisitions, share repurchases, and dividend payments from our operating activities. Our positive cash flows have allowed us to support our business and to pay substantial dividends, targeting approximately 80% of our net income, to our stockholders. It is anticipated that cash and total corporate investments as of November 30, 2018, along with projected operating cash flows and available short-term financing, will support our normal business operations, capital purchases, share repurchases, and dividend payments for the foreseeable future. Our guidance has been revised for fiscal 2019. We anticipate that the acquisition of Oasis, which closed on December 20, 2018, will have an incremental impact to total revenue in the range of $155 million to $175 million in fiscal 2019. Excluding one-time costs related to the acquisition, Oasis is anticipated to have minimal impact on earnings per share. One-time acquisition costs are anticipated to impact diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.03 per share in the balance of fiscal 2019. Please refer to the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section within the discussion of “Results of Operations” of this Item 2 for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures. Fiscal 2019 growth rates for these non-GAAP measures are based on fiscal 2018 adjusted net income of $922.9 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.56, which includes the impact of the restatement of fiscal 2018 results as it relates to our adoption of ASC Topic 606 on June 1, 2018. No assumptions were made in regards to discrete tax items in fiscal 2019 for employee stock-based compensation payments. As of November 30, 2018, we had no exposure to high-risk or illiquid investments. In December 2018, the Federal Funds rate was raised an additional 25 basis points to a range of 2.25% to 2.50%. The increase in Management Solutions revenue was primarily driven by increases in client bases across many of our services. Within Management Solutions revenue, retirement services revenue also benefited from an increase in asset fee revenue earned on the asset value of participants’ funds. PEO and Insurance Services revenue growth was primarily driven by increases in clients and client worksite employees across our PEO business. Insurance Services growth resulted from an increase in the number of health and benefit applicants. The increase was primarily attributable to the items previously discussed. The acquisitions of HROI and Lessor, completed during fiscal 2018, contributed approximately 2% to the growth in total service revenue for the six months compared to the same period last year. The increase resulted primarily from higher average interest rates earned. The funds held for clients average investment balances were flat for the second quarter and decreased 1% for the six months, compared to the same periods last year, primarily due to the impact of lower client withholdings resulting from the Tax Act, partially offset by wage inflation. The acquisition of Lessor contributed approximately 2% to the growth in total expenses for the second quarter, compared to the same period last year. The acquisitions of HROI and Lessor contributed approximately 4% to the growth in total expenses for the six months, compared to the same period last year. The acquisition of Lessor contributed approximately 1% to the growth in compensation-related expenses for the second quarter, compared to the same period last year. The acquisitions of HROI and Lessor contributed approximately 2% to the growth in compensation-related expenses for the six months, compared to the same period last year. Headcount was approximately 14,600 employees, including Lessor, as of November 30, 2018, compared to approximately 14,000 employees, as of November 30, 2017. Amortization of intangible assets is primarily related to client list acquisitions, which are amortized using either straight-line or accelerated methods. The growth in depreciation and amortization for both the second quarter and the six months was primarily driven by an increase in internally developed software that was placed in service over the past two years. Growth in our combined PEO business, including the acquisition of HROI, contributed to the growth in PEO insurance costs for the second quarter and the six months. Continued investment in product development and supporting technology impacted other expense growth for the second quarter and the six months. The changes in operating income were attributable to the factors previously discussed. Investment income does not include interest on funds held for clients, which is included in total revenue. Investment income, net, was $2.1 million for the second quarter and $4.4 million for the six months, reflecting increases of 17% and 14%, respectively, compared to the same periods last year. These increases were due to higher average interest rates earned, partially offset by decreases of 2% and 3% in average corporate investment balances for the second quarter and the six months, respectively, compared to the same periods last year. The decreases in average corporate investment balances were due to funds used for stock repurchases over the past twelve months, higher dividend payments, and acquisitions. The decrease in the effective income tax rate for the second quarter and the six months was primarily due to the enactment of the Tax Act in December 2017. In addition, the effective income tax rates in these periods were impacted by the recognition of a net discrete tax benefit related to employee stock-based compensation payments. The net discrete tax benefit impacted the second quarter by less than $0.01 per diluted share and the respective prior year period by $0.01 per diluted share. The net discrete tax benefit impacted the six months by $0.01 per diluted share and the respective prior year period by $0.02 per diluted share. Diluted earnings per share was $0.65 per share for the second quarter and $1.33 per share for the six months, reflecting increases of 18% in each respective period, compared to the same periods last year. These fluctuations were attributable to the factors previously discussed. Adjusted net income was $235.3 million for the second quarter and $477.3 million for the six months, reflecting increases of 20% and 19%, respectively, compared to the same periods last year. Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.65 per share for the second quarter and $1.32 per share for the six months, reflecting increases of 20% and 19%, respectively, compared to the same periods last year. Refer to the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section that follows for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures. This event is not expected to recur. We believe adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share are appropriate additional measures, as they are indicators of our core business operations performance period over period. As such, they should not be considered as a substitute for the GAAP measures of net income and diluted earnings per share, and therefore should not be used in isolation, but in conjunction with the GAAP measures. The use of any non-GAAP measure may produce results that vary from the GAAP measure and may not be comparable to a similarly defined non-GAAP measure used by other companies. Short-term borrowings totaled $57.3 million as of November 30, 2018. We believe that our investments in an unrealized loss position as of November 30, 2018 were not other-than-temporarily impaired, nor has any event occurred subsequent to that date to indicate any other-than-temporary impairment. We anticipate that cash and total corporate investments as of November 30, 2018, along with projected operating cash flows and available short-term financing, will support our normal business operations, capital purchases, share repurchases, and dividend payments, for the foreseeable future. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. Upon the expiration date, any borrowings outstanding will mature and be payable on such date. In addition to overnight borrowings, during the six months ended November 30, 2017, we borrowed $100.0 million for a three-day period at a weighted-average interest rate of 4.25%. Subsequent to November 30, 2018, we borrowed $400.0 million due on February 20, 2019 at a LIBOR-based interest rate of 3.50% as we secure permanent financing for the acquisition of Oasis. In addition to overnight borrowings, during the three and six months ended November 30, 2017, we borrowed $300.0 million for seven days and $75.0 million for eleven days at weighted-average LIBOR-based interest rates of 2.13% and 2.19%, respectively. Subsequent to November 30, 2018, we borrowed $400.0 million due on February 20, 2019 at a LIBOR-based interest rate of 3.50% as we secure permanent financing for the acquisition of Oasis. We were in compliance with all of these covenants as of November 30, 2018. The letters of credit expire at various dates between April 2019 and July 2020. No amounts were outstanding on these letters of credit during the second quarter or the six months or as of November 30, 2018. We had outstanding commitments to purchase approximately $4.4 million of capital assets as of November 30, 2018. Historically, there have been no material losses related to such guarantees. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, which require us to defend and, if necessary, indemnify these individuals for certain pending or future legal claims as they relate to their services provided to us. Our estimated loss exposure under these insurance arrangements is recorded in other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Historically, the amounts accrued have not been material and were not material as of November 30, 2018. We also maintain insurance coverage in addition to our purchased primary insurance policies for gap coverage for employment practices liability, errors and omissions, warranty liability, theft and embezzlement, cyber threats, and acts of terrorism; and capacity for deductibles and self-insured retentions through our captive insurance company. This involved the purchase of five buildings and the renovation of over 300,000 square feet of existing space. We completed the purchase of these buildings for a combined cost of approximately $34.7 million and placed approximately $16.0 million in escrow for the building renovations. A majority of the renovations on the buildings purchased have been completed and any remaining renovations are expected to be substantially completed later this fiscal year. We do maintain investments as a limited partner in both low-income housing projects and a venture capital fund focused on the financial technology sector. These are not considered part of our ongoing operations. These investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting represented less than one percent of our total assets as of November 30, 2018. The decrease in our operating cash flows for the six months, compared to the same period last year, was primarily the result of fluctuations in operating assets and liabilities and non-cash adjustments, partially offset by higher net income. The fluctuations in our operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to the timing of collections and related tax payments for our combined PEO business. In addition, the increase in our cash used in operating assets and liabilities was impacted by a decrease in accrued liabilities balances in connection with the termination of certain licensing agreements. A decrease in non-cash adjustments was primarily due to a lower provision for deferred income taxes, which was impacted by the utilization of alternative minimum tax credits carried forward from prior years. Corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. The amount of funds held for clients will also vary based upon the timing of collecting client funds, and the related remittance of funds to applicable tax or regulatory agencies for payroll tax administration services and to employees of clients utilizing employee payment services. Additional discussion of interest rates and related risks is included in the “Market Risk Factors” section of this Form 10-Q. These fluctuations were attributable to timing of collections and remittances within the client funds portfolio, and related investment or liquidation of funds held for client fund obligations, as discussed further in the “Financing Cash Flow Activities” section which follows. The decrease in the net cash outflow for the purchases of property and equipment, compared to the same period last year, was due to the purchase of five buildings for a new Paychex campus based in Rochester N.Y. during the prior year period. The acquisition consideration was a combination of cash and stock. The amount reflected as cash outflow during the same period last year was the cash portion of the purchase offset by cash balances acquired. Collections from clients are typically remitted from one to 30 days after receipt, with some items extending to 90 days. Client fund obligation balances are significantly impacted by the timing of the period end and overall trends in client fund balances. November 30, 2018 fell on a Friday, which is a significant disbursement day for direct pay funds. November 30, 2017 fell on a Thursday, which is a significant collection day for direct pay funds. In addition, funds held for clients average investment balances were down slightly in the six months compared to the same period last year, primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act on client fund collections. Certain borrowings remained outstanding under the PNC credit facility as of November 30, 2018 and November 30, 2017. In addition, certain borrowings remained outstanding under the JPM $500 million credit facility as of November 30, 2017. Borrowings are to finance working capital needs and general corporate purposes and decreased from the corresponding prior year period. The purpose of the program is to manage common stock dilution. During the six months, we repurchased 0.5 million shares for $32.8 million. During the respective prior year period, we repurchased 1.6 million shares for $94.1 million. All shares of common stock repurchased were retired. As of November 30, 2018, approximately $67.7 million remains available under the approved common stock repurchase program. The net cash outflow during the respective prior year period was a result of proceeds from stock options not exceeding the impact of shares withheld to cover taxes on lapses of stock awards. Corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. As a result of our investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. Changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. We follow an investment strategy of protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. We invest predominantly in municipal bonds - including general obligation bonds; pre-refunded bonds, which are secured by a U.S. government escrow; and essential services revenue bonds - along with U.S. government agency securities and corporate bonds. We limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest primarily in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. We manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years. We have no exposure to high-risk or illiquid investments. We have insignificant exposure to European investments. We have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. When interest rates are rising, the full impact of higher interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. During a rising interest rate environment, earnings increase from our short-term investments, and over time earnings increase from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. Earnings from the available-for-sale-securities, which as of November 30, 2018 had an average duration of 3.2 years, would not reflect increases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at higher rates. Expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. Although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature. In December 2018, the Federal Funds rate was raised an additional 25 basis points to a range of 2.25% to 2.50%. The Federal Reserve has raised this rate by 25 basis points eight times from December 2015 through November 30, 2018. Under normal financial market conditions, the impact to earnings from a 25-basis-point change in short-term interest rates would be in the range of $3.0 million to $4.0 million, after taxes, for a twelve-month period. Such a basis point change may or may not be tied to changes in the Federal Funds rate. Our anticipated allocation is approximately 45% invested in short-term and VRDNs with an average duration of less than 30 days and 55% invested in available-for-sale securities, with an average duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years. During the six months, the net unrealized loss on our investment portfolios ranged from $32.1 million to $60.7 million. These fluctuations were driven by changes in market rates of interest. The net unrealized loss on our investment portfolios was approximately $35.4 million as of December 17, 2018. The weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 2.0% as of November 30, 2018 and 1.9% as of May 31, 2018. The weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes available-for-sale securities tied to short-term interest rates, such as VRDNs. Assuming a hypothetical increase in longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in fair value for our portfolio of available-for-sale securities held as of November 30, 2018 would be approximately $20.0 million. Conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase in fair value. This hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio’s recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders’ equity. These fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary and an impairment loss recognized. We regularly review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. We believe that the investments we held as of November 30, 2018 were not other-than-temporarily impaired. While $2.2 billion of our available-for-sale securities had fair values that were below amortized cost, we believe that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the contractual terms, and that the gross unrealized losses of $46.2 million were due to changes in interest rates and were not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. A majority of the securities in an unrealized loss position as of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018 held an AA rating or better. We do not intend to sell these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believe that it is not more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these investments prior to that time. Our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment. We have some credit risk exposure in connection with our purchase of accounts receivable as a means of providing payroll funding to clients in the temporary staffing industry. This credit risk exposure is diversified amongst multiple client arrangements and all such arrangements are regularly reviewed for potential write-off. No single client is material in respect to total accounts receivable, service revenue, or results of operations. There have been no other material changes in these aforementioned critical accounting policies. Item 3. Disclosure controls and procedures are also designed with the objective of ensuring that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Other than these changes, there have been no material changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred most recently completed fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. PART II. The purpose of the program is to manage common stock dilution and shares repurchased are retired. There were no repurchases of common stock under this program during the three months ended November 30, 2018. As of November 30, 2018, the dollar value of common shares that may yet be purchased under the program is approximately $67.7 million. Pursuant to the Agreement, upon the closing of the transaction the Buyer acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Oasis. The Company guaranteed the obligations of the Buyer under the Agreement. The acquisition was financed through a combination of cash and temporary borrowings on previously existing credit facilities of the Company. The Company is in the process of securing permanent financing for the acquisition. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.