Yes x No ¨Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. FINANCIAL INFORMATIONITEM 1. Basis of PresentationFinancial Statement Preparation. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, the interim financial information includes all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods. These condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2017. Operating results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire fiscal year. The Company operates and reports using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the last Sunday in September. Each of the three-month and nine-month periods ended June 24, 2018 and June 25, 2017 included 13 weeks and 39 weeks, respectively.The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and the disclosure of contingent amounts in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company eliminated the one-month reporting lag previously used to consolidate its RF360 Holdings joint venture to provide contemporaneous reporting within its consolidated financial statements. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to Qualcomm by the combination of dilutive common share equivalents, comprised of shares issuable under the Company’s share-based compensation plans, if any, and the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period. Due to the net loss for the nine months ended June 24, 2018, all of the common share equivalents issuable under share-based compensation plans had an anti-dilutive effect and were therefore excluded from the computation of diluted loss per share. At June 24, 2018, the Company had 23.8 million restricted stock units outstanding and 6.5 million stock options outstanding.Recent Accounting Pronouncements. The Company adopted the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. In accordance with the new guidance, excess tax benefits or deficiencies associated with share-based awards are recognized through earnings when the awards vest or settle, rather than in stockholders’ equity. In the nine months ended June 24, 2018, net excess tax benefits associated with share-based awards of $15 million were recognized in the Company’s income tax provision. In addition, cash flows related to excess tax benefits are presented as an operating activity and cash payments made on an employee’s behalf for withheld shares are presented as financing activities, with the prior periods adjusted accordingly. The new guidance also impacts the Company’s earnings per share calculation as the estimate of dilutive common share equivalents under the treasury stock method no longer assumes that the estimated tax benefits realized when an award is settled are used to repurchase shares. There was no impact of this change on the Company’s calculation of earnings per share as a result of the net loss for the nine months ended June 24, 2018. The new guidance requires a company to recognize revenue as control of goods or services transfers to a customer at an amount that reflects the expected consideration to be received in exchange for those goods or services. It defines a five-step approach for recognizing revenue, which may require a company to use more judgment and make more estimates than under the current guidance. The Company will adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance. Specifically, the Company expects a change in the timing of revenues recognized from sales-based royalties, which are the vast majority of QTL’s revenues. The Company currently recognizes sales-based royalties as revenues in the period in which such royalties are reported by licensees, which is after the conclusion of the quarter in which the licensees’ sales occur and when all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Under the new guidance, the Company will be required to estimate and recognize sales-based royalties in the period in which the associated sales occur, resulting in an acceleration of revenue recognition compared to the current method. As a result of recognizing royalty revenues based on estimates, adjustments to revenues will be required in subsequent periods based on the actual amounts reported by licensees. Upon adoption of the new guidance, licenses to use portions of the Company’s intellectual property portfolio will be considered one performance obligation, and license fees will be recognized as revenues on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of benefit of the license to the licensee, which is similar to the recognition of license revenues under the current guidance. The Company currently accounts for customer incentive arrangements in its licensing and semiconductor businesses, including volume-related and other pricing rebates or cost reimbursements for marketing and other activities involving certain of the Company’s products and technologies, in part based on the maximum potential liability. Under the new guidance, the Company will estimate the amount of all customer incentives. Additionally, it changes the disclosure requirements for financial instruments. For equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values, the Company expects to use the measurement alternative, which is defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted by observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments. The Company will adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective transition method for equity investments that have readily determinable fair values, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption, and the prospective transition method for equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values. The Company is in the process of determining the effects the adoption will have on its consolidated financial statements.In June 2016, the FASB issued new guidance that changes the accounting for recognizing impairments of financial assets. Under the new guidance, credit losses for certain types of financial instruments will be estimated based on expected losses. The new guidance also modifies the impairment models for available-for-sale debt securities and for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination. The new guidance will be effective for the Company starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and generally requires the modified retrospective transition method, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption, except for certain financial assets where the prospective transition method is required, such as available-for-sale debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment has been recorded. Early adoption is permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The new guidance requires lessees to recognize lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets for all leases with lease terms of greater than 12 months. It also changes the definition of a lease and expands the disclosure requirements of lease arrangements. The Company will adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and expects to use the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption. The new guidance also modifies disclosure requirements for hedging activities. The Company plans to adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective transition method, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption, and does not expect the effects of the adoption to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. The Company will adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the retrospective transition method for each period presented, and does not expect the effects of the adoption to have a material impact on its consolidated statements of cash flows.In October 2016, the FASB issued new guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. The Company will adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective transition method, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption, and is in the process of determining the effects the adoption will have on its consolidated financial statements.In November 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the classification and presentation of changes in restricted cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. The Company will adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the retrospective transition method for each period presented. As a fiscal-year taxpayer, certain provisions of the Tax Legislation impacted the Company in fiscal 2018, including the change in the corporate income tax rate and the Toll Charge, while other provisions will be effective starting at the beginning of fiscal 2019, including the implementation of a modified territorial tax system. The U.S. federal income tax rate reduction was effective as of January 1, 2018. Accordingly, the Company’s federal statutory income tax rate for fiscal 2018 reflects a blended rate of approximately 25%.Pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, given the amount and complexity of the changes in tax law resulting from the Tax Legislation, the Company has not finalized the accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Legislation. This includes the provisional amounts recorded related to the Toll Charge, the remeasurement of deferred taxes and the change in the Company’s indefinite reinvestment assertion. The Company has elected to account for GILTI as period costs if and when incurred. The impact of the Tax Legislation may differ from this estimate, possibly materially, during the remainder of the one-year measurement period due to, among other things, further refinement of the Company’s calculations, changes in interpretations and assumptions the Company has made, guidance that may be issued and actions the Company may take as a result of the Tax Legislation. The Company has preliminarily accounted for the effects of the Tax Legislation, which resulted in a charge of $5.73 billion to income tax expense recorded discretely in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, comprised of $5.3 billion related to the estimated Toll Charge and $412 million resulting from the estimated impact of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities that existed at the end of fiscal 2017 at a lower enacted corporate income tax rate. These amounts included a $135 million tax benefit recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 related to the remeasurement of a U.S. deferred tax liability that was established as a result of a change in one of the Company’s tax positions due to Tax Legislation. In addition, the Company recorded $12 million net tax expense discretely in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 related to refining estimates associated with the Toll Charge and impact of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities. The Toll Charge is based on the Company’s post-1986 earnings and profits of U.S.-owned foreign subsidiaries through December 31, 2017 for which the Company had previously deferred U.S. income taxes. The Company has not yet finalized its calculation of the total post-1986 foreign earnings and profits for the respective foreign subsidiaries. Further, the Toll Charge is based in part on the amount of those earnings held in cash and other specific assets. The Company remeasured its deferred tax assets and liabilities that existed at the end of fiscal 2017 based on the income tax rate at which they are expected to reverse, which primarily assumes the reduced income tax rate of 21% applicable in fiscal 2019, resulting in a reduction to noncurrent net deferred tax assets of $412 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. As of December 24, 2017, the Company no longer considers available cash balances that existed at the end of fiscal 2017 related to undistributed pre-fiscal 2018 earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested and recorded a tax expense of $92 million related to foreign withholding taxes during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. However, as a result of the Tax Legislation, the Company is reassessing its intentions related to its indefinite reinvestment assertion. Should the Company decide to no longer indefinitely reinvest such earnings outside the U.S., the Company would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period such determination is made. As a result of the Toll Charge imposed by the Tax Legislation, the Company expects to fully utilize all of its unused federal tax credits that existed at the end of fiscal 2017 of $1.4 billion, which resulted in a reduction to noncurrent deferred tax assets in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and the federal tax credits that are expected to be generated in fiscal 2018. The Company did not discount the amount of the Toll Charge. The cash amount the Company currently estimates will be paid for the Toll Charge, net of tax credit carryforwards and expected tax credits estimated to be generated in fiscal 2018, is $2.7 billion. The estimated first installment of $215 million is due on January 15, 2019 and was included in other current liabilities. The remaining liability was included in noncurrent income taxes payable. During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company entered into a new tax incentive agreement in Singapore that results in a reduced tax rate from March 2017 through March 2022, provided that the Company meets specified employment and investment criteria in Singapore. The Company’s Singapore tax rate will increase in fiscal 2022 as a result of expiration of these incentives and again in March 2027 upon the expiration of tax incentives under a prior agreement. As a result of this new tax incentive, the Company’s estimated income tax expense for fiscal 2018 was reduced by approximately $126 million.The Company estimates its annual effective income tax rate to be approximately 264% for fiscal 2018, as compared to the 18% effective income tax rate for fiscal 2017, primarily as a result of the estimated charge of $5.82 billion recorded to income tax expense in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 related to the combined effect of the Toll Charge, the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities and the Company’s decision to no longer indefinitely reinvest certain foreign earnings, all of which resulted from the Tax Legislation. Tax benefits from foreign income taxed at rates lower than rates in the U.S. are expected to be approximately 37% in fiscal 2018, compared to 32% in fiscal 2017, primarily due to lower estimated U.S. revenues principally related to decreased royalty revenues from Apple’s contract manufacturers, an increase in the allocation of expenses to the Company’s U.S. operations and the new tax incentive in Singapore, partially offset by the lower U.S. federal statutory income tax rate enacted by the Tax Legislation. The estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 also reflects a blended U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 25% as a result of the Tax Legislation. The Company believes that it is reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at June 24, 2018 may increase or decrease in the next 12 months.The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and is currently under examination by various tax authorities worldwide, most notably in countries where the Company earns a routine return and tax authorities believe substantial value-add activities are performed. These examinations are at various stages with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds, many of which are open for periods after fiscal 2000. The Company continually assesses the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjusts the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts give rise to a revision become known. As of June 24, 2018, the Company believes that adequate amounts have been reserved for based on facts known. However, the final determination of tax audits and any related legal proceedings could materially differ from amounts reflected in the Company’s income tax provision and the related accruals. Stock Repurchase Program. On May 9, 2018, the Company announced a stock repurchase program authorizing it to repurchase up to $10 billion of the Company’s common stock. The stock repurchase program has no expiration date. The $10 billion stock repurchase program replaced a $15 billion stock repurchase program announced on March 9, 2015, of which $1.2 billion remained authorized for repurchase under the prior program. In the nine months ended June 24, 2018 and June 25, 2017, the Company repurchased and retired 24.2 million and 16.7 million shares for $1.4 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, before commissions. In the event the NXP Acquisition is terminated, the Company intends to implement a stock repurchase program to repurchase up to $30 billion of the Company’s outstanding common stock. This new stock repurchase program, if implemented, will have no expiration date and will replace the May 2018 stock repurchase program. Dividends. On July 12, 2018, the Company announced a cash dividend of $0.62 per share on the Company’s common stock, payable on September 26, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on September 5, 2018. On March 23, 2018, the Company’s stockholders approved an amendment to the Amended and Restated QUALCOMM Incorporated 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan to increase the share reserve by 30,000,000 shares to approximately 101,709,000.Note 5. DebtRevolving Credit Facility. Proceeds from the 2016 Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility, if drawn, are expected to be used for general corporate purposes. At June 24, 2018 and September 24, 2017, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the 2016 Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility.Commercial Paper Program. The Company has an unsecured commercial paper program, which provides for the issuance of up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. Maturities of commercial paper can range from 1 day to up to 397 days. At June 24, 2018 and September 24, 2017, the Company had $3.2 billion and $999 million, respectively, of outstanding commercial paper included in short-term debt with a weighted-average interest rate of 2.34% and 1.19%, respectively, which included fees paid to the commercial paper dealers, and weighted-average remaining days to maturity of 46 days and 45 days, respectively. The carrying value of the outstanding commercial paper approximated its estimated fair value at June 24, 2018 and September 24, 2017.NXP-Related Credit and Term Loan Facilities. Proceeds from the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility, if drawn, will be used in part to finance the NXP Acquisition and for general corporate purposes. In the event the NXP Acquisition is terminated, these commitments will expire. The initial margins over the reserve-adjusted Eurocurrency Rate and the Base Rate based on Qualcomm’s debt ratings as of June 24, 2018 will be 0.75% and 0.00% per annum, respectively. Proceeds from the 2016 Term Loan Facility, if drawn, will be used to finance the NXP Acquisition. In the event the NXP Acquisition is terminated, these commitments will expire. At June 24, 2018 and September 24, 2017, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the 2016 Term Loan Facility. Proceeds from the 2018 Term Loan Facility, if drawn, will be used in part to finance the NXP Acquisition and for general corporate purposes. In the event the NXP Acquisition is terminated, these commitments will expire. The initial margins over the reserve-adjusted Eurocurrency Rate and the Base Rate based on Qualcomm’s debt ratings as of June 24, 2018 will be 0.875% and 0.00% per annum, respectively. The 2018 Term Loan Facility has a ticking fee, which is based on Qualcomm’s debt ratings and initially accrues at a rate of 0.05% per annum commencing on March 6, 2018. At June 24, 2018, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the 2018 Term Loan Facility.Long-term Debt. For holders not eligible to participate in the exchanges, the Company offered to repurchase the Old Notes pursuant to cash tender offers for 100.25% of the principal amount of the Old Notes. The offers to exchange and offers to repurchase the Company’s 2.10% fixed-rate notes due 2020 were not accepted because the amount of such notes validly tendered and not withdrawn in the applicable exchange offer was not sufficient to meet the minimum tender condition. On May 31, 2018, the Company exchanged $122 million of Old Notes for new notes and repurchased $71 million of Old Notes in the aggregate pursuant to the offers to exchange and the offers to repurchase. Also on May 31, 2018, the Company called for full redemption of all of its then-outstanding 1.85% fixed-rate notes due 2019 and 2.10% fixed-rate notes due 2020 pursuant to the optional redemption provision in the fixed-rate notes, and irrevocably deposited cash of $2.8 billion with the trustee of the notes, which represented an amount sufficient to satisfy and discharge such fixed-rate notes in full. On June 8, 2018, the Company called for full redemption all of its then-outstanding floating-rate notes due 2019 and floating-rate notes due 2020 pursuant to the special mandatory redemption provisions in the floating-rate notes. On July 2, 2018, $2.6 billion was paid to the holders of the fixed-rate notes in full redemption of such notes out of the $2.8 billion in cash previously deposited with the trustee, with the excess amount then refunded to the Company. On July 6, 2018, $1.2 billion was paid to the holders of the floating-rate notes in full redemption of such notes. In the event the NXP Acquisition is terminated, the May 2018 Notes will be redeemed in accordance with their terms. The Company may redeem the fixed-rate notes at any time in whole, or from time to time in part, at specified make-whole premiums as defined in the applicable form of note. The Company may not redeem the other floating-rate notes prior to maturity. The obligations under the notes rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company’s other senior unsecured indebtedness and will effectively rank junior to all liabilities of the Company’s subsidiaries. The net gains and losses on the interest rate swaps, as well as the offsetting gains or losses on the related fixed-rate notes attributable to the hedged risks, are recorded in earnings in interest expense in the current period. The Company did not enter into similar interest rate swaps in connection with issuance of the May 2017 Notes or May 2018 Notes.The effective interest rates for the notes include the interest on the notes, amortization of the discount, which includes debt issuance costs, and if applicable, adjustments related to hedging. Interest is payable in arrears quarterly for the floating-rate notes and semi-annually for the fixed-rate notes. Cash interest paid related to the Company’s commercial paper program and long-term debt, net of cash received from the related interest rate swaps, was $594 million and $289 million in the nine months ended June 24, 2018 and June 25, 2017, respectively.Debt Covenants. The 2016 Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility, the 2016 Term Loan Facility, the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility and the 2018 Term Loan Facility require that the Company comply with certain covenants, including one financial covenant to maintain a ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to consolidated interest expense, as defined in each of the respective agreements, of not less than three to one at the end of each fiscal quarter. The Company is not subject to any financial covenants under the notes nor any covenants that would prohibit the Company from incurring additional indebtedness ranking equal to the notes, paying dividends, issuing securities or repurchasing securities issued by it or its subsidiaries. At June 24, 2018 and September 24, 2017, the Company was in compliance with the applicable covenants under each facility outstanding at such time.Note 6. On August 21, 2014, ParkerVision amended the complaint, captioned ParkerVision, Inc. v. QUALCOMM Incorporated, Qualcomm Atheros, Inc., HTC Corporation, HTC America, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., LTD., Samsung Electronics America, Inc. and Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC, broadening the allegations. ParkerVision alleged that the Company infringes 11 ParkerVision patents and seeks damages and injunctive and other relief. On December 3, 2015, ParkerVision dismissed six patents from the lawsuit and granted the Company and all other defendants a covenant not to assert those patents against any existing products. Subsequently, ParkerVision announced that it had reached a settlement with Samsung which dismissed the Samsung entities from the District Court case. On March 7, 2017, the USPTO decided in the Company’s favor with respect to all asserted claims of one such patent. After the ITC action described below was closed, and upon agreement among the parties, on May 24, 2017, the District Court further stayed the District Court case pending ParkerVision’s appeal of the USPTO’s invalidation decisions. A hearing on ParkerVision’s appeal before the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit is scheduled for August 7, 2018.On December 14, 2015, ParkerVision filed another complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida alleging patent infringement. Apple Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., LTD., Samsung Electronics America, Inc., Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC, Samsung Semiconductor, Inc., LG Electronics, Inc., LG Electronics U.S.A., Inc. and LG Electronics MobileComm U.S.A., Inc. were also named defendants. The complaint asserts that certain of the Company’s products infringe four additional ParkerVision patents and seeks damages and other relief. On December 15, 2015, ParkerVision filed a complaint with the ITC pursuant to Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 against the same parties asserting the same four patents. The complaint seeks an exclusion order barring the importation of products that use either of two Company transceivers or one Samsung transceiver and a cease and desist order preventing the Company and the other defendants from carrying out commercial activities within the United States related to such products. On January 13, 2016, the Company served its answer to the District Court complaint. On January 15, 2016, the ITC instituted an investigation. On February 12, 2016, the District Court case was stayed pending completion of the ITC investigation. Subsequently, ParkerVision announced that it had reached a settlement with Samsung which dismissed the Samsung entities from the ITC investigation and related District Court case. On February 2, 2017, the ITC granted ParkerVision’s motion to drop all but one patent and one accused product from the ITC investigation. The Company and the other defendants did not oppose the withdrawal of the complaint. On April 28, 2017, the ITC formally closed the investigation. On May 4, 2017, ParkerVision filed a motion to reopen the related District Court Case, and on May 26, 2017, the District Court granted the motion. On March 16, 2018, the parties agreed to dismiss three of ParkerVision’s patents from the case without prejudice, leaving only one patent at issue. A claim construction hearing is scheduled for August 31, 2018. In its initial complaint, Apple sought declaratory judgments of non-infringement by Apple of nine of the Company’s patents, or in the alternative, a declaration of royalties Apple must pay for the patents. Apple further sought a declaration that the Company’s sale of baseband chipsets exhausts the Company’s patent rights for patents embodied in those chipsets. In addition, Apple claimed that the Company has refused to deal with competitors in contravention of the Company’s agreements with applicable standard setting organizations, has used its market position to impose contractual obligations on Apple that prevented Apple from challenging the Company’s licensing practices, has tied the purchase of the Company’s CDMA-enabled and “premium” LTE-enabled chipsets to licensing certain of the Company’s patents and has required Apple to purchase baseband chipsets exclusively from the Company as a condition of the Company’s payment to Apple of certain rebates, in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act and the California Unfair Competition Law. The Company also seeks declaratory judgments that the Company has satisfied its FRAND commitments with respect to Apple, and that the Company’s SULAs with the contract manufacturers do not violate either competition law or the Company’s FRAND commitments. On June 19, 2017, Apple filed a Partial Motion to Dismiss the Company’s counterclaim for violation of the California Unfair Competition Law. The court granted that motion on November 8, 2017. On June 20, 2017, Apple filed an Answer and Affirmative Defenses to the rest of the Company’s counterclaims, and also filed an Amended Complaint reiterating all of the original claims and adding claims for declaratory judgments of invalidity of the nine patents that are subject to declaratory judgment claims in the original complaint, adding new declaratory judgment claims for non-infringement, invalidity and a declaration of royalties for nine more patents. Apple also added claims for declaratory judgments that certain of the Company’s agreements are unenforceable. On July 21, 2017, the Company filed an Answer to Apple’s Amended Complaint as well as a motion to dismiss the new declaratory judgment claims for non-infringement, invalidity and a declaration of royalties for the nine additional patents. The court granted the Company’s motion on November 8, 2017. On July 17, 2017, Compal, Foxconn, Pegatron and Wistron each filed third-party complaints for contractual indemnity against Apple seeking to join Apple as a party to the action. On July 18, 2017, Apple filed an answer to these third-party complaints acknowledging its indemnity agreements and consenting to be joined. In addition, the defendants asserted certain new claims, including claims under Section 1 of the Sherman Act and California’s Cartwright Act. The defendants seek damages, declaratory relief, injunctive relief, restitution of certain royalties and other relief. On July 18, 2017, Apple filed a motion to consolidate this action with the Apple Inc. v. QUALCOMM Incorporated case. On September 13, 2017, the court granted Apple’s consolidation motion. Fact discovery is substantially closed in these cases. A final pretrial conference is scheduled for November 30, 2018. The trials have not been scheduled.On January 23, 2017, an Apple subsidiary in China filed two complaints against the Company in the Beijing Intellectual Property Court. On March 31, 2017, the court granted an application by Apple Inc. to join the actions as a plaintiff, and Apple amended the complaints. The FRAND complaint makes allegations similar to the AML complaint and further alleges that the Company refused to offer licensing terms for the Company’s cellular standard-essential patents consistent with the Company’s FRAND licensing commitments and failed to provide to Apple certain information about the Company’s patents. Apple also seeks its expenses in each of the cases. On August 3, 2017, the Company received three additional complaints filed by an Apple subsidiary and Apple Inc. against the Company in the Beijing Intellectual Property Court. The complaints seek declaratory judgments of non-infringement of three Qualcomm patents. The Company filed jurisdictional and other objections to the complaints, which the court denied on May 31, 2018. On July 5, 2018, the Company appealed the denial of its objections to the Beijing High People’s Court.On February 16, 2017, Apple and one of its Japanese subsidiaries filed four complaints against the Company in the Tokyo District Court. In three of the complaints, Apple seeks declaratory judgment of non-infringement by Apple of three of the Company’s patents. Apple further seeks a declaration that the Company’s patent rights with respect to those three patents are exhausted by the Company’s SULAs with the contract manufacturers of Apple’s devices as well as the Company’s sale of baseband chipsets. Apple also seeks an award of fees. On January 30, 2018, April 27, 2018 and July 13, 2018, the court dismissed each of the three declaratory judgment complaints, finding that Apple lacked standing based on the facts it alleged in those complaints. The court has yet to rule on whether Apple has standing in the remaining complaint. On May 15, 2017, the Company learned of the fourth complaint. The Company has filed jurisdictional and other objections to this complaint.On March 2, 2017, the Company learned that Apple and certain of its European subsidiaries issued a Claim Form against the Company in the UK High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court on January 23, 2017. Apple subsequently filed an Amended Claim Form and Particulars of Claim. Apple also seeks declarations that the Company is obliged to offer a direct patent license to Apple in respect of standard-essential patents actually practiced on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and that using the Company’s chipsets does not infringe any of the Company’s patents because the Company exhausted its patent rights. The complaint seeks rulings that the Company not use the sales price of the terminal device as the royalty base for standard-essential patents; not leverage its cellular standard-essential patents to obtain licenses of its non-standard-essential patents or demand cross-licenses without proper compensation; not refuse, reduce, delay or take any other action to limit the supply of its baseband chipsets to non-licensees; that the Company must license its standard-essential patents on FRAND terms; and that the Company shall not, based on standard-essential patents, seek injunctions. Apple seeks damages and costs. The Company has filed jurisdictional objections to the complaints. The Company is seeking a limited exclusion order and cease and desist order against importation of iPhone models that do not contain a Qualcomm brand baseband processor. The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms. Apple filed an Answer and Counterclaims in the District Court case on September 26, 2017. On November 29, 2017, Apple filed a First Amended Answer and Counterclaims asserting that the Company’s Snapdragon processors infringe eight Apple patents. On August 8, 2017, the ITC issued a notice of institution of an investigation. On August 25, 2017, the Company withdrew allegations as to one patent in both the ITC investigation and the District Court case. On April 25, 2018, the Company withdrew allegations as to two additional patents in the ITC investigation, but not the district court case, in order to satisfy certain briefing limitations and to narrow the issues for hearing. The ALJ’s Initial Determination on the merits is due on September 14, 2018, and the target date for final determination by the ITC is set for January 14, 2019. A case management conference in the district court case was held on January 26, 2018. On March 2, 2018, the court granted the Company’s motion to sever, for separate trial, Apple’s counterclaims for patent infringement against the Company. With respect to the Company’s patent claims against Apple, fact discovery closed on June 11, 2018, and a claim construction hearing is set for July 31, 2018. Trial is scheduled to begin on March 4, 2019. With respect to Apple’s patent claims against the Company, fact discovery is scheduled to close on December 3, 2018. A claim construction hearing is scheduled for September 5, 2018, and trial is scheduled to begin on July 15, 2019. On June 29, 2018 and July 6, 2018, Intel filed petitions with the USPTO PTAB challenging the validity of another patent asserted in the July 7, 2017 ITC investigation and corresponding District Court case. On July 3, 2018, Intel filed petitions with the USPTO PTAB challenging the validity of two additional patents asserted in the July 7, 2017 ITC investigation and corresponding District Court case.On November 1, 2017, the Company filed a complaint against Apple in San Diego Superior Court for breach of the Master Software Agreement between the companies. The complaint recounts instances when Apple failed to protect the Company’s software as required by the agreement and failed to provide sufficient information to which the Company is entitled under the agreement in order to understand whether other breaches have occurred. Apple filed its Answer to the Complaint on December 29, 2017. Trial is scheduled to begin on April 26, 2019.On November 29, 2017, the Company filed three additional complaints against Apple in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging infringement of a total of 16 of the Company’s patents. The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms. The complaints seek damages and injunctive relief. Case management conferences were held on February 7, 2018 and March 1, 2018. Tutorials and presentation of claim construction arguments for two of the cases are scheduled for September 12-13, 2018 and October 10 - 11, 2018, respectively. For the case relating to the November 30, 2017 ITC investigation described below, a mandatory settlement conference is scheduled for October 19, 2018, fact discovery is scheduled to close on March 13, 2019, and trial is scheduled to begin on October 21, 2019. On June 18, 2018, Apple filed a petition with the USPTO PTAB challenging the validity of one patent asserted in the November 30, 2017 ITC investigation and the corresponding District Court case. On June 29, 2018, Apple filed petitions with the USPTO PTAB challenging the validity of another patent asserted in the November 30, 2017 ITC investigation and the corresponding District Court case. No trial date has been set for the other two cases.On November 30, 2017, the Company filed a complaint in the ITC accusing certain Apple products of infringing five of the Company’s patents. The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms. The Company seeks a limited exclusion order and cease and desist order against importation of iPhone models that do not contain a Qualcomm brand baseband processor. On January 2, 2018, the ITC instituted an investigation. The ALJ’s Initial Determination on the merits is due on January 22, 2019, and the target date for final determination by the ITC is set for May 22, 2019.On July 17, 2017, the Company filed complaints against Apple and certain of its subsidiaries in the Federal Republic of Germany, asserting infringement of one of the Company’s patents in the Mannheim District Court and infringement of another patent in the Munich District Court. On October 2, 2017, the Company filed claim extensions in these actions against Apple and certain of its subsidiaries, asserting infringement of two additional patents in the Mannheim District Court and infringement of five additional patents in the Munich District Court. On May 28, 2018, the Company filed additional claim extensions in these actions against Apple and certain of its subsidiaries, asserting infringement of three additional patents in the Mannheim District Court and infringement of one additional patent in the Munich District Court. The complaints seek remedies including, among other relief, declaratory relief confirming liability on the merits for damages and injunctive relief. The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms. The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs. The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms. On May 10, 2018 and June 21, 2018, Apple filed invalidation requests with the PRB for the three asserted patents. The PRB has not set hearing dates for these proceedings. The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief, damages and costs. The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms. PRB hearings regarding the validity of the patents were held in April and May 2018. On May 22, 2018, Apple’s subsidiaries filed a second invalidation request with the PRB for one of the three asserted patents. The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs. The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms. Apple’s subsidiaries filed invalidation requests with the PRB on December 8, 2017 for one of the patents and December 11, 2017 for the other two patents. PRB hearings regarding the validity of the patents were held in April and May 2018. The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs. The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief, damages and costs. The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms. On February 5, 2018, Apple’s subsidiaries filed invalidation requests with the PRB. PRB hearings regarding the validity of the patents were held in June 2018. The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs. The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms. On February 26, 2018, Apple’s subsidiaries filed invalidation requests with the PRB. PRB hearings regarding the validity of the patents were held in June 2018. The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs. The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms. On March 14, 2018, Apple’s subsidiaries filed invalidation requests with the PRB. PRB hearings regarding the validity of the patents began in July 2018. The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs. On April 29, 2016, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. On January 27, 2017, the court dismissed the amended complaint in its entirety, granting leave to amend. The second amended complaint sought unspecified damages, interest, attorneys’ fees and other costs. On May 8, 2017, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. On October 20, 2017, the court entered an order granting in part the Company’s motion to dismiss, and on November 29, 2017, the court entered an order granting the remaining portions of the Company’s motion to dismiss. On December 28, 2017, the plaintiffs filed an appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. No hearing date has been set. The complaints sought unspecified damages, interest, fees and costs. On May 4, 2017, the court consolidated the two actions and appointed lead plaintiffs. On July 3, 2017, the lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint asserting the same basic theories of liability and requesting the same basic relief. On September 1, 2017, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. The court has not yet ruled on the motion. The complaints seek unspecified damages, interest, fees and costs. Twenty-two such cases remain outstanding. In April 2017, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred the cases that had been filed in the Southern District of California to the Northern District of California. On May 15, 2017, the court entered an order appointing the plaintiffs’ co-lead counsel. On July 11, 2017, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint alleging that the Company violated California and federal antitrust and unfair competition laws by, among other things, refusing to license standard-essential patents to its competitors, conditioning the supply of certain of its baseband chipsets on the purchaser first agreeing to license the Company’s entire patent portfolio, entering into exclusive deals with companies including Apple Inc., and charging unreasonably high royalties that do not comply with the Company’s commitments to standard setting organizations. On August 11, 2017, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. On November 10, 2017, the court denied the Company’s motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint, except to the extent that certain claims seek damages under the Sherman Antitrust Act. On July 5, 2018, the plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification, and a hearing on that motion is scheduled for September 27, 2018. The case is currently in the discovery stage, with discovery scheduled to close on December 28, 2018. Trial is scheduled to begin on January 19, 2019. The Company believes the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit. The claims are similar to those in the FTC and U.S. consumer class action complaints. The complaints seek unspecified damages. On September 29, 2009, the JFTC issued a cease and desist order concluding that the Company’s Japanese licensees were forced to cross-license patents to the Company on a royalty-free basis and were forced to accept a provision under which they agreed not to assert their essential patents against the Company’s other licensees who made a similar commitment in their license agreements with the Company. The cease and desist order seeks to require the Company to modify its existing license agreements with Japanese companies to eliminate these provisions while preserving the license of the Company’s patents to those companies. The Company disagrees with the conclusions that it forced its Japanese licensees to agree to any provision in the parties’ agreements and that those provisions violate the Japanese Antimonopoly Act. The Company has invoked its right under Japanese law to an administrative hearing before the JFTC. In February 2010, the Tokyo High Court granted the Company’s motion and issued a stay of the cease and desist order pending the administrative hearing before the JFTC. The JFTC has held hearings on 37 different dates. No further hearings are currently scheduled. The KFTC levied a fine, which the Company paid and recorded as an expense in fiscal 2010. The Company appealed to the Seoul High Court, and on June 19, 2013, the Seoul High Court affirmed the KFTC’s decision. On July 4, 2013, the Company filed an appeal with the Korea Supreme Court. The Company believes that its business practices do not violate the MRFTA, and on February 21, 2017 filed an action in the Seoul High Court to cancel the KFTC’s decision. On the same day, the Company filed an application with the Seoul High Court to stay the decision’s remedial order pending the Seoul High Court’s final judgment on the Company’s action to cancel the KFTC’s decision. On September 4, 2017, the Seoul High Court denied the Company’s application to stay the remedial order, and on November 27, 2017, the Korea Supreme Court dismissed the Company’s appeal of the Seoul High Court’s decision on the application to stay. The Seoul High Court has not ruled on the Company’s action to cancel the KFTC’s decision. The Company was asked by the EC to submit a preliminary response to the portions of the complaint disclosed to it, and the Company submitted its response in July 2010. Subsequently, the Company provided additional documents and information as requested by the EC. On July 16, 2015, the EC announced that it had initiated formal proceedings in this matter. On December 8, 2015, the EC announced that it had issued a Statement of Objections expressing its preliminary view that between 2009 and 2011, the Company engaged in predatory pricing by selling certain baseband chipsets to two customers at prices below cost, with the intention of hindering competition. A Statement of Objections informs the subject of the investigation of the allegations against it and provides an opportunity to respond to such allegations. It is not a determination of the final outcome of the investigation. On August 15, 2016, the Company submitted its response to the Statement of Objections. On July 19, 2018, the EC announced that it had issued a Supplementary Statement of Objections which focuses on certain elements of the "price-cost" test applied by the EC to assess the extent to which the Company sold certain baseband chipsets allegedly below cost. It is difficult to predict the outcome of this matter or what remedies, if any, may be imposed by the EC. On July 16, 2015, the EC announced that it had initiated formal proceedings in this matter. On December 8, 2015, the EC announced that it had issued a Statement of Objections expressing its preliminary view that, pursuant to an agreement with a customer, since 2011 the Company paid significant amounts to that customer on condition that it exclusively use the Company’s baseband chipsets in its smartphones and tablets. This conduct allegedly reduced the customer’s incentives to source chipsets from the Company’s competitors and harmed competition and innovation for certain baseband chipsets. On January 24, 2018, the EC issued a decision finding that certain terms of that agreement violate EU competition law and imposed a fine of approximately 997 million Euros. On April 6, 2018, the Company filed an appeal of the EC’s decision with the General Court of the European Union. The court has not ruled on the Company’s appeal. The Company provided financial guarantees in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to satisfy the obligation in lieu of cash payment while the Company appeals the EC’s decision. The fine is accruing interest at a rate of 1.50% per annum until it is paid or annulled. On January 17, 2017, the FTC filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that the Company engaged in anticompetitive conduct and unfair methods of competition in violation of Section 5 of the FTCA by conditioning the supply of baseband processors on the purchaser first agreeing to a license to the Company’s standard-essential patents, paying incentives to purchasers of baseband processors to induce them to accept certain license terms, refusing to license its standard-essential patents to the Company’s competitors and entering into alleged exclusive dealing arrangements with Apple Inc. The complaint seeks a permanent injunction against the Company’s alleged violations of the FTCA and other unspecified ancillary equitable relief. A fine is not an available remedy in this matter, and the Company does not believe that other monetary remedies are likely. On April 19, 2017, the court set a trial date for January 4, 2019. On October 11, 2017, the TFTC announced that it had reached a decision in the investigation, finding that the Company violated the TFTA. The TFTC’s decision was based on a four-three vote, and included three written dissents. The TFTC’s decision also imposed a fine of 23.4 billion Taiwan Dollars. On December 22, 2017, the Company filed an Administrative Litigation Complaint in the IPC to revoke the TFTC’s decision. On May 24, 2018, the Company withdrew its Stay Application. The IPC has not yet ruled on the Company’s Administrative Litigation Complaint to revoke the TFTC’s decision.The Company recorded a charge of $778 million to other expenses related to the TFTC fine in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. The fine will be paid in monthly installments through December 2022. However, litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain, and the Company faces difficulties in evaluating or estimating likely outcomes or ranges of possible loss in antitrust and trade regulation investigations in particular. Investigations by antitrust and trade regulation agencies are not conducted in a consistent manner across jurisdictions. Further, each country and agency has different sets of laws, rules and regulations, both substantive and procedural, as well as different legal principles, theories and potential remedies, and some agencies may seek to use the investigation to advance domestic policy goals. Depending on the jurisdiction, these investigations can involve non-transparent procedures under which the Company may not receive access to evidence relied upon by the enforcement agency or that may be exculpatory, and may not be informed of the specific legal theories or evidence considered or relied upon by the agency. As a result, the Company may not be aware of, and may not be entitled to know, all allegations against it, or the information or documents provided to, or discovered or prepared by, the agency. Accordingly, the Company may have little or no idea what an agency’s intent is with respect to liability, penalties or the timing of a decision. In many cases the agencies are given significant discretion, and any available precedent may have limited, if any, predictive value in their jurisdictions, much less in other jurisdictions. Accordingly, the Company cannot predict the outcome of these matters. Other than with respect to the TFTC and EC fines, the Company has not recorded any accrual at June 24, 2018 for contingent losses associated with these matters based on its belief that losses, while possible, are not probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. The unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The Company is engaged in numerous other legal actions not described above arising in the ordinary course of its business and, while there can be no assurance, believes that the ultimate outcome of these other legal actions will not have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Indemnifications. The Company generally does not indemnify its customers and licensees for losses sustained from infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Reimbursements under indemnification arrangements have not been material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The Company has not recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities at June 24, 2018 associated with these indemnification arrangements based on the Company’s belief that additional liabilities, while possible, are not probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.Purchase Obligations and Operating Leases. The Company has agreements with suppliers and other parties to purchase inventory, other goods and services and long-lived assets. Integrated circuit product inventory obligations represent purchase commitments for raw materials, semiconductor die, finished goods and manufacturing services, such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and final test. Under the Company’s manufacturing relationships with its foundry suppliers and assembly and test service providers, cancelation of outstanding purchase commitments is generally allowed but requires payment of costs incurred through the date of cancelation, and in some cases, incremental fees related to capacity underutilization. The Company leases certain of its land, facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating leases, with terms ranging from less than one year to 21 years and with provisions in certain leases for cost-of-living increases. The remaining commitments do not have fixed funding dates and are subject to certain conditions. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be funded under these arrangements; actual funding may be in lesser amounts or not at all.In March 2018, the Company’s RF360 Holdings joint venture entered into an agreement for a build-to-suit construction project with a third-party lessor for the development of a manufacturing facility located in Singapore. The agreement includes a long-term lease commitment with a noncancelable 10-year term commencing upon completion of the construction project. At June 24, 2018, the minimum lease commitment under the agreement based on the noncancelable term was approximately $87 million.Note 7. Segment InformationThe Company is organized on the basis of products and services and has three reportable segments. In accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement, in the absence of approval from SAMR prior to the End Date, NXP will be entitled to receive a termination fee of $2.0 billion from Qualcomm River Holdings, which will be paid using existing cash and cash equivalents. If events occur that cause the Company to not terminate the transaction, the Company will continue to pursue the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding common shares of NXP for $127.50 per share in cash, representing estimated total cash consideration to be paid to NXP’s shareholders of $44 billion, in accordance with the Purchase Agreement. In such case, the Company could be required to pay NXP a termination fee of $2.0 billion if the transaction is subsequently terminated in certain circumstances, as set forth in the Purchase Agreement. Qualcomm River Holdings entered into four letters of credit for an aggregate amount of $2.0 billion related to the potential termination fee payable to NXP. Pursuant to the terms of each letter of credit, NXP will have the right to draw amounts to fund certain termination compensation owed by Qualcomm River Holdings to NXP if the Purchase Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, as described above. The letters of credit expire on December 31, 2018 or if drawn on or surrendered by NXP or surrendered by Qualcomm River Holdings. Upon the Company’s payment of the termination fee, NXP will no longer have the right to validly draw on the letters of credit. Each letter of credit is required to be fully cash collateralized in an amount equal to 100% of its face value through deposits with the issuers of the letters of credit. Qualcomm River Holdings is restricted from using the funds deposited as collateral while the letters of credit are outstanding. At June 24, 2018, the letters of credit were fully collateralized through bank time and demand deposits, which were included in other noncurrent assets.Note 9. Cost PlanIn the second quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company announced a Cost Plan designed to align the Company’s cost structure to its long-term margin targets. As part of this plan, the Company has initiated a series of targeted actions across the Company’s businesses to reduce annual costs by $1 billion, excluding incremental costs resulting from any future acquisition of a business. The Company expects these cost reductions to be fully captured in fiscal 2019. In connection with this plan, the Company expects to incur additional restructuring and restructuring-related charges of approximately $50 million to $150 million, which primarily consist of severance and consulting costs, and the vast majority of which are expected to be settled in cash. The restructuring accrual, a portion of which was included in payroll and other benefits related liabilities with the remainder included in other current liabilities, is expected to be substantially paid within the next 12 months. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 in the nine months ended June 24, 2018 and June 25, 2017. There were no transfers of marketable securities into or out of Level 3 during the nine months ended June 24, 2018 and June 25, 2017. Other investments and other liabilities included in Level 3 at June 24, 2018 were comprised of convertible debt instruments issued by private companies and contingent consideration related to business combinations, respectively. There were no transfers of convertible debt instruments or contingent consideration amounts into or out of Level 3 during the nine months ended June 24, 2018 and June 25, 2017. Note 11. Marketable securities that were expected to be used to finance the NXP transaction were fully liquidated and classified as cash and cash equivalents at June 24, 2018. Given the Company’s intention to sell certain marketable securities, the Company recorded other-than-temporary impairment losses in fiscal 2017 for certain marketable securities, and no additional losses were recorded in the nine months ended June 24, 2018. 31ITEM 2. Additionally, statements concerning future matters, such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, industry and market trends, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical, are forward-looking statements. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates” and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report.Although forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report reflect our good faith judgment, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include without limitation those discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Quarterly Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.Third Quarter of Fiscal 2018 OverviewRevenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $5.6 billion, an increase of 4% compared to the year ago quarter, with net income attributable to Qualcomm of $1.2 billion, an increase of 41% compared to the year ago quarter. This represents a partial payment for royalties due after the second quarter of fiscal 2017 by that other licensee while negotiations continue. This payment does not reflect the full amount of royalties due under the underlying license agreement.•In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we announced a Cost Plan designed to align our cost structure to our long-term margin targets, under which we continue to execute on a series of targeted actions across our businesses to reduce annual costs by $1 billion, excluding incremental costs resulting from any future acquisition of a business. We expect these cost reductions to be fully captured in fiscal 2019. We recorded restructuring and restructuring-related charges of $112 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 related to our Cost Plan. We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products and licensing our intellectual property, including patents, software and other rights.We are organized on the basis of products and services and have three reportable segments. QCT develops and supplies integrated circuits and system software based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies for use in mobile devices, wireless networks, devices used in IoT, broadband gateway equipment, consumer electronic devices and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. We also have nonreportable segments, including our mobile health, data center, small cell and other wireless technology and service initiatives.Our reportable segments are operated by QUALCOMM Incorporated and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. QTL is operated by QUALCOMM Incorporated, which owns the vast majority of our patent portfolio. Neither QTI nor any of its subsidiaries has any right, power or authority to grant any licenses or other rights under or to any patents owned by QUALCOMM Incorporated.Seasonality. As a result, QCT has tended historically to have stronger sales toward the end of the calendar year as manufacturers prepare for major holiday selling seasons; and because QTL recognizes royalty revenues when royalties are reported by licensees, QTL has tended to record higher royalty revenues in the first calendar quarter when licensees report their sales made in the fourth calendar quarter. These trends may or may not continue in the future. The increase in equipment and services revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to an increase in QCT revenues. The increase in licensing revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to an increase in QTL revenues. The margin percentage in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 remained flat primarily due to the effects of a decrease in higher margin QTL licensing revenues as a proportion of total revenues, offset by an increase in QCT margin and a reduction to licensing revenues of $962 million recorded in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 related to the BlackBerry arbitration decision. In addition, our margin percentage may be impacted by the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 pursuant to which we will be required to estimate and recognize sales-based royalty revenues in the period in which the associated sales occur. As a result, adjustments to revenues will be required in subsequent periods based on the actual amounts reported by our licensees. The dollar increase in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was partially offset by a $30 million impairment charge on certain intangible assets recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2017.Selling, general and administrative expenses included $162 million and $413 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, related to litigation costs, an increase of $102 million and $275 million, respectively. Excluding the increase in litigation costs, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $157 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to decreases of $60 million in other professional fees and costs related to other legal matters, principally related to third-party acquisition and integration services, $31 million in other expenses and $30 million in employee-related expenses driven by actions taken under our Cost Plan, $30 million in share-based compensation expense, primarily due to an increase in forfeitures, and $16 million in amortization of intangible assets. Excluding the increase in litigation costs, selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $105 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 primarily due to increases of $118 million in professional fees and costs related to other legal matters, which was primarily driven by Broadcom’s withdrawn takeover proposal and $45 million in bad debt expense, partially offset by decreases of $45 million in share-based compensation expense, primarily due to an increase in forfeitures and actions take under our Cost Plan, and $16 million in amortization of intangible assets. Other expenses in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 included $112 million and $422 million, respectively, in restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to our Cost Plan. In the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we began divesting a substantial portion of our marketable securities portfolio in order to finance, in part, the proposed acquisition of NXP. As a result, we recorded net realized gains and impairment losses on such marketable securities that we sold and expected to sell before their anticipated recovery, respectively, in fiscal 2017. As a fiscal-year taxpayer, certain provisions of the Tax Legislation impacted us in fiscal 2018, including the change in the corporate income tax rate and the Toll Charge, while other provisions will be effective starting at the beginning of fiscal 2019, including the implementation of a modified territorial tax system. Accordingly, our federal statutory income tax rate for fiscal 2018 reflects a blended rate of approximately 25%.We have preliminarily accounted for the effects of the Tax Legislation, which resulted in a charge of $5.73 billion to income tax expense recorded discretely in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, comprised of $5.3 billion related to the estimated Toll Charge and $412 million resulting from the estimated impact of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities that existed at the end of fiscal 2017 at a lower enacted corporate income tax rate. These amounts included a $135 million tax benefit in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 related to the remeasurement of a U.S. deferred tax liability that was established as a result of a change in one of our positions due to Tax Legislation. In addition, we recorded $12 million net tax expense discretely in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 related to refining estimates associated with the estimated Toll Charge and the estimated impact of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities. During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we entered into a new tax incentive agreement in Singapore that results in a reduced tax rate from March 2017 through March 2022, provided that we meet specified employment and investment criteria in Singapore. Our Singapore tax rate will increase in March 2022 as a result of expiration of these incentives and again in March 2027 upon the expiration of tax incentives under a prior agreement. As a result of this new tax incentive, our estimated income tax expense for fiscal 2018 was reduced by approximately $126 million.Our annual effective tax rate is estimated to be approximately 264% for fiscal 2018 as compared to the 18% effective income tax rate for fiscal 2017, primarily as a result of the estimated charge of $5.82 billion recorded to income tax expense in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 related to the combined effect of the Toll Charge, the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities and our decision to no longer indefinitely reinvest certain foreign earnings, all of which resulted from the Tax Legislation. Our estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was also impacted by the EC fine recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, which is not deductible for tax purposes and is attributable to a foreign jurisdiction. Tax benefits from foreign income taxed at rates lower than rates in the U.S. are expected to be approximately 37% in fiscal 2018, compared to 32% in fiscal 2017, primarily due to lower estimated U.S. revenues principally related to decreased royalty revenues from Apple’s contract manufacturers, an increase in the allocation of expenses to our U.S. operations and the new tax incentive in Singapore, partially offset by the lower U.S. federal statutory income tax rate enacted by the Tax Legislation. The estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 also reflects a blended U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 25% as a result of the Tax Legislation. The annual effective tax rate of 18% for fiscal 2017 reflected the KFTC and TFTC fines, which were not deductible for tax purposes and were each attributable to both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions.The effective tax rate of 28% benefit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was lower than the estimated annual effective tax rate primarily due to the estimated charge of $5.95 billion recorded discretely to income tax expense in the first six months of fiscal 2018 related to the effects of certain components of the Tax Legislation and the EC fine recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as well as tax benefits recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 resulting from an increase in the allocation of expenses to our U.S. operations and the new tax incentive in Singapore.Unrecognized tax benefits were $356 million and $372 million at June 24, 2018 and September 24, 2017, respectively. We believe that it is reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at June 24, 2018 may increase or decrease in the next 12 months.We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and we are currently under examination by various tax authorities worldwide, most notably in countries where we earn a routine return and tax authorities believe substantial value-add activities are performed. These examinations are at various stages with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds, many of which are open for periods after fiscal 2000. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjusts the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts give rise to a revision become known. As of June 24, 2018, we believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for based on facts known. However, the final determination of tax audits and any related legal proceedings could materially differ from amounts reflected in our income tax provision and the related accruals. Segment ResultsThe following should be read in conjunction with the financial results for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 for each reportable segment included in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 7. The increases in QCT revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to increases in equipment and services revenues. Approximately 199 million and 187 million MSM integrated circuits were sold in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively, and approximately 623 million and 584 million MSM integrated circuits were sold in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increases in QCT equipment and services revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to increases in RFFE product revenues of $75 million and $823 million, respectively, primarily driven by revenues from our RF360 Holdings joint venture, which was formed in the second quarter of fiscal 2017, and reflected the impact of eliminating a one-month reporting lag in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, and increases of $166 million and $559 million, respectively, primarily related to higher MSM and accompanying unit shipments driven primarily by higher demand from OEMs in China, partially offset by a decline in share at Apple. The increase in QCT revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was partially offset by decreases of $178 million resulting from lower average selling prices and unfavorable product mix and $31 million in connectivity product revenues. The increase in QCT revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was partially offset by decreases of $422 million resulting from the net impact of lower average selling prices and favorable product mix and $131 million in connectivity product revenues.QCT EBT as a percentage of revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased primarily due to net gains on foreign currency transactions related to our RF360 Holdings joint venture, partially offset by a decrease in gross margin percentage. The decrease in gross margin percentage was primarily due to unfavorable product mix and lower average selling prices, partially offset by lower average unit costs. QCT EBT as a percentage of revenues in first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased primarily due to an increase in gross margin percentage and the favorable impact of higher revenues relative to operating expenses. The increase in gross margin percentage was primarily due to lower average unit costs, partially offset by lower average selling prices.QCT accounts receivable decreased by 29% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 from $1.81 billion to $1.30 billion, primarily due to a decline in revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 and the timing of integrated circuit shipments. QCT inventories decreased by 12% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 from $2.02 billion to $1.77 billion primarily due to a decrease in the overall quantity of units on hand.QTL Segment. We did not record any revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 for royalties due on sales of Apple’s products. QTL revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 included $500 million paid under an interim agreement with the other licensee in dispute. This represents a partial payment for royalties due after the second quarter of fiscal 2017 by that other licensee while negotiations continue, and it does not reflect the full amount of royalties due under the underlying license agreement. We did not record any revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 for royalties due on the sales of Apple’s and the other licensee’s products. Royalty revenues related to the products of Apple’s contract manufacturers and the other licensee in dispute were approximately $1.7 billion in 37the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Additionally, QTL revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 were negatively impacted by lower royalty revenues recognized related to devices sold in prior periods from certain other licensees. The decrease in QTL EBT as a percentage of revenues was partially offset in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 by higher QTL revenues. The decrease in QTL EBT as a percentage of revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was also attributable to lower QTL revenues. QTL revenues and EBT also continued to be impacted negatively by units that we believe are not being reported by certain other licensees and sales of certain unlicensed products. While we have reached agreements with many licensees, negotiations with certain other licensees and unlicensed companies are ongoing, particularly in emerging regions, including China, and additional litigation may become necessary if negotiations fail to resolve the relevant issues.QSI Segment. The decrease in QSI EBT in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the impact of $36 million resulting from lower revenues from certain development contracts with one of our equity method investees and a decrease of $32 million in net realized gains on investments. We also expect growth in new device categories and industries, driven by the expanding adoption of certain technologies that are already commonly used in smartphones by industry segments outside traditional cellular industries, such as automotive, IoT and networking. In accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement, in the absence of approval from SAMR prior to the End Date, NXP will be entitled to receive a termination fee of $2.0 billion from Qualcomm River Holdings, which will be paid using existing cash and cash equivalents. If events occur that cause us to not terminate the transaction, we will continue to pursue the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding common shares of NXP for $127.50 per share in cash, representing estimated total cash consideration to be paid to NXP’s shareholders of $44 billion, in accordance with the Purchase Agreement. •In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we announced a cost plan designed to align our cost structure to our long-term margin targets. As part of this plan, we continue to execute on a series of targeted actions across our businesses to reduce annual costs by $1 billion, excluding incremental costs resulting from any future acquisition of a business. We expect these cost reductions to be fully captured in fiscal 2019. In connection with this plan, we expect to incur an additional $50 million to $150 million in restructuring and restructuring-related charges, and we have incurred $112 million and $422 million in restructuring and restructuring-related charges in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively.•Regulatory authorities in certain jurisdictions continue to investigate our business practices, and other regulatory authorities may do so in the future. Additionally, certain of our direct and indirect customers and licensees, including Apple, have pursued, and others may in the future pursue, litigation or arbitration against us related to our business. These activities have required, and we expect that they will continue to require, the investment of significant management time and attention and have resulted, and we expect that they will continue to result, in increased legal costs until the respective matters are resolved. See “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. In the first nine months of fiscal 2018, such contract manufacturers did not fully report, and did not pay, royalties due on sales of Apple products. We have taken action against Apple’s contract manufacturers to compel them to pay the required royalties, and against Apple, as described more fully in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Commitments and Contingencies.” We did not record any revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 for royalties due on sales of Apple’s products, and as a result, QTL revenues and EBT were negatively impacted by these continued disputes. We expect these companies will continue to take such actions in the future, resulting in increased legal costs and negatively impacting our future revenues, as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows until the respective disputes are resolved. In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we entered into an interim agreement with the other licensee in dispute in which that licensee agreed to pay $700 million as partial payment for royalties due after the second quarter of fiscal 2017. That licensee paid $500 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as a partial payment while negotiations continue. This payment does not reflect the full amount of royalties due under the underlying license agreement. If we do not reach a final agreement with that other licensee, it may not make any other payments or may not make full payments under the underlying license agreement, which may result in increased legal costs and will negatively impact our future revenues, as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows until the dispute is resolved.•We continue to believe that certain licensees, particularly those domiciled in China, are not fully complying with their contractual obligations to report their sales of licensed products to us, and certain companies, including unlicensed companies, particularly in emerging regions, including China, are delaying execution of new license agreements. We have made substantial progress in reaching agreements with many companies, primarily in China. However, negotiations with certain licensees and unlicensed companies are ongoing. We believe that the conclusion of new agreements with these companies will result in improved reporting. Such litigation or other actions would result in increased legal costs.•To position QTL for stability on a long-term basis, we have announced that our standard essential patent only licensing terms through 5G, Release 15 will remain at the same rate, consistent with our licensing program established in China for 3G and 4G devices. In addition, we have reduced the per unit royalty cap on smartphones, which is the base on which our royalties are calculated. For example, we have not been the sole supplier of modems for iPhone products beginning with products that launched in September 2016, as Apple utilizes modems from one of our competitors in a portion of such devices. We expect that Apple will solely use one or more of our competitor’s modems, rather than our modems, in its next iPhone release and may take similar actions in the future. Accordingly, 39QCT revenues from modem sales for iPhones are expected to decline in fiscal 2018 and may continue to decline in the future, in part depending on the extent of Apple’s utilization of competitors’ modems and the mix of the various versions of its products that are sold. In addition to the foregoing business and market-based matters, we continue to devote resources to working with and educating participants in the wireless value chain and governments as to the benefits of our business model and our extensive technology investments in promoting a highly competitive and innovative wireless industry. However, we expect that certain companies may continue to be dissatisfied with the need to pay reasonable royalties for the use of our technology and not welcome the success of our business model in enabling new, highly cost-effective competitors to their products. The transaction remains subject to receipt of regulatory approval from SAMR and other closing conditions. In accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement, in the absence of approval from SAMR prior to the End Date, NXP will be entitled to receive a termination fee of $2.0 billion from Qualcomm River Holdings, which will be paid using existing cash and cash equivalents. If events occur that cause us to not terminate the transaction, we will continue to pursue the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding common shares of NXP for $127.50 per share in cash, representing estimated total cash consideration to be paid to NXP’s shareholders of $44 billion, in accordance with the Purchase Agreement. In such case, we could be required to pay NXP a termination fee of $2.0 billion if the transaction is subsequently terminated in certain circumstances, as set forth in the Purchase Agreement. Qualcomm River Holdings entered into four letters of credit for an aggregate amount of $2.0 billion pursuant to which NXP will have the right to draw amounts to fund the potential termination fee payable to NXP. Upon our payment of the termination fee, NXP will no longer have the right to validly draw on the letters of credit. Each letter of credit is required to 40be fully cash collateralized in an amount equal to 100% of its face value through deposits with the issuers of the letters of credit. We are restricted from using the funds deposited as collateral while the letters of credit are outstanding. At June 24, 2018, the letters of credit were fully collateralized through bank time and demand deposits.Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, cash provided by our debt programs and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. Total cash provided by operating activities increased primarily due to the effect of the $940 million payment in connection with the BlackBerry arbitration and the $927 million payment of the fine related to the KFTC investigation in the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Total cash provided by operating activities was also impacted by continued actions taken by Apple and its contract manufacturers who did not report or pay royalties due in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Our days sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, decreased to 51 days at June 24, 2018, as compared to 56 days at September 24, 2017. The decrease in accounts receivable and the related days sales outstanding were primarily due to the timing of integrated circuit shipments and the collection of receivables related to integrated circuits. The decrease in days sales outstanding was also attributable to $500 million recognized as revenues and paid under an interim agreement with the other licensee in dispute. The decrease in inventories was primarily due to a decrease in the overall quantity of units on hand. Debt. Our 2016 Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swing line loans and letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $5.0 billion, of which $530 million and $4.47 billion will expire in February 2020 and November 2021, respectively. At June 24, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility.We have an unsecured commercial paper program, which provides for the issuance of up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. At June 24, 2018, we had $3.2 billion of commercial paper outstanding with weighted-average net interest rates of 2.34% and weighted-average remaining days to maturity of 46 days.Our 2018 Revolving Credit Facility, 2016 Term Loan Facility and our 2018 Term Loan Facility were established primarily to fund the proposed acquisition of NXP. In the event the NXP purchase agreement is terminated, these commitments will expire unused in accordance with their terms. Our 2018 Revolving Credit Facility provides for unsecured delayed-draw revolving facility loans in an aggregate amount of $3.0 billion. Our 2016 Term Loan Facility provides for senior unsecured delayed-draw term facility loans in an aggregate amount of $4.0 billion, and our 2018 Term Loan Facility provides for senior unsecured delayed-draw term facility loans in an aggregate amount of $7.0 billion. At June 24, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under the credit or term loan facilities.41In May 2017, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $11.0 billion in nine tranches of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes, with maturity dates starting in 2019 through 2047. Effective interest rates were between 2.70% and 4.74% at June 24, 2018. Interest is payable in arrears quarterly for the floating-rate notes and semi-annually for the fixed-rate notes. In May 2018, we initiated offers to exchange and repurchase certain of our notes issued in May 2017 that were subject to special mandatory redemption provisions. We exchanged $122 million of notes and repurchased $71 million of notes in the aggregate. On May 31, 2018, we called for full redemption of our then-outstanding fixed-rate notes subject to special mandatory redemption provisions and irrevocably deposited cash of $2.8 billion with the trustee of the notes, of which $2.6 billion was paid to the holders of the fixed-rate notes on July 2, 2018, with the excess amount refunded to us. On June 8, 2018, we called for full redemption of our then-outstanding floating-rate notes of $1.2 billion subject to special mandatory redemption provisions, which was subsequently paid to the holders of the floating-rate notes on July 6, 2018. In the event the NXP purchase agreement is terminated, the May 2018 Notes will be redeemed in accordance with their terms. We may redeem the fixed-rate notes issued in May 2018 at any time in whole, or from time to time in part, at specified make-whole premiums as defined in the applicable form of note.In May 2015, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $10.0 billion in eight tranches of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes, of which $8.5 billion remains outstanding with maturity dates in 2020 through 2045. Effective interest rates were between 2.94% and 4.74% at June 24, 2018. Interest is payable in arrears quarterly for the floating-rate notes and semi-annually for the fixed-rate notes. We may issue additional debt in the future. The amount and timing of such additional borrowings will be subject to a number of factors, including the cash flow generated by United States-based entities, acquisitions and strategic investments, acceptable interest rates and changes in corporate income tax law, among other factors.Additional information regarding our outstanding debt at June 24, 2018 is provided in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5. Debt.” Income Taxes. The Tax Legislation, which was signed into law during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, resulted in an estimated $5.3 billion charge related to the Toll Charge. The Tax Legislation eliminated certain material tax effects on the repatriation of cash to the United States. As of December 24, 2017, we no longer consider available cash balances that existed at the end of fiscal 2017 related to undistributed pre-fiscal 2018 earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested. However, as a result of the Tax Legislation, we are reassessing our intentions related to our indefinite reinvestment assertion. Should we decide to no longer indefinitely reinvest such earnings outside the U.S., we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period such determination is made.Additional information regarding our income taxes is provided in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3. Income Taxes.”Capital Return Program. In the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we repurchased and retired 24.2 million shares of our common stock for $1.4 billion, before commissions. On May 9, 2018, we announced that we had been authorized to repurchase up to $10 billion of our common stock. The $10 billion stock repurchase program replaced a $15 billion stock repurchase program announced on March 9, 2015, of which $1.2 billion remained authorized for repurchase under the prior program. At June 24, 2018, $9.0 billion remained authorized for repurchase under the stock repurchase program announced in May 2018. In the event the agreement to acquire NXP is terminated, we intend to implement a stock repurchase program to repurchase up to $30 billion of our outstanding common stock. This new stock repurchase program, if implemented, will have no expiration date and will replace the May 2018 stock repurchase program. However, we periodically evaluate repurchases as a means of returning capital to stockholders to determine when and if repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders and may accelerate, suspend, delay or discontinue repurchases at any time.In the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we paid cash dividends totaling $2.6 billion, or $1.76 per share. On July 12, 2018, we announced a cash dividend of $0.62 per share on our common stock, payable on September 26, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on September 5, 2018. We intend to continue to use cash dividends as a means of returning capital to stockholders, subject to capital availability and our view that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders.Additional Capital Requirements. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, our expected cash flow generated from operations and our expected financing activities will satisfy our working and other capital requirements for at least the next 12 months based on our current business plans. Recent and expected working and other capital requirements, in addition to the above matters, also include the items described below.•We expect the majority of the charges incurred in connection with our Cost Plan will result in cash payments. Our restructuring accrual was $252 million at June 24, 2018, and we expect to incur additional restructuring and restructuring-related charges of approximately $50 million to $150 million. •Our purchase obligations at June 24, 2018, some of which relate to research and development activities and capital expenditures, totaled $2.8 billion and $1.7 billion for fiscal 2018 and 2019, respectively, and $663 million thereafter. •Our research and development expenditures were $4.2 billion in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and $5.5 billion in fiscal 2017, and we expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development for new technologies, applications and services for voice and data communications.•Cash outflows for capital expenditures were $625 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and $690 million in fiscal 2017. We expect to continue to incur capital expenditures in the future to support our business, including research and development activities. In the third quarter of 2018, we provided financial guarantees in lieu of cash payment to satisfy the obligation. Income Taxes,” “Note 5. Debt,” “Note 6. Commitments and Contingencies” and “Note 8. Acquisitions.”Recent Accounting PronouncementsInformation regarding recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of those pronouncements, if any, on our consolidated financial statements is provided in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1. Basis of Presentation.”43Risk FactorsYou should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Quarterly Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also negatively impact our business and results of operations, and require significant management time and attention. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also consider the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2017 in evaluating our business and our prospects, including but not limited to our financial statements and the related notes and “Part I, Item 2. As a result, we would not realize the benefits that we anticipated from the acquisition, including, but not limited to, increased revenues; accelerated revenue diversification; significantly expanded addressable markets and opportunities; accelerated entry into new industry segments and expansion in existing industry segments; new and expanded product offerings and technologies; accelerated expansion of sales and distribution channels; cost and other synergies; and earnings accretion from the acquisition. In addition, future acquisitions may be more difficult, complex or expensive to the extent that our reputation for our ability to consummate acquisitions is harmed. We cannot provide assurance that the conditions to the completion of the proposed transaction will be satisfied.44The final regulatory approval required in connection with the proposed transaction may not ultimately be obtained or may contain materially burdensome conditions. If any conditions or changes to the structure of the proposed transaction are required to obtain this regulatory approval, they may have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the proposed transaction or reducing our anticipated benefits. If we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain this approval, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.In addition, the use of a significant portion of our cash and the incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the proposed transaction will reduce our liquidity, and may limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. See the Risk Factor entitled “There are risks associated with our indebtedness and our significant proposed stock repurchase program.”The proposed transaction will be our largest acquisition to date, by a significant margin. The benefits we expect to realize from the proposed transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the businesses successfully and efficiently. Further, our failure to identify or accurately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities we are assuming in the proposed transaction could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting charges, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Our revenues depend on commercial network deployments, expansions and upgrades of CDMA, OFDMA and other communications technologies; our customers’ and licensees’ sales of products and services based on these technologies; and customers’ demand for our products and services.We develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on CDMA, OFDMA and other communications technologies, which are primarily wireless. Further, we depend on the timing of our customers’ and licensees’ deployments of new devices and services based on these technologies. We anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain segments of the industry. Reductions in the average selling prices of our chipset products, without a corresponding increase in volumes, would negatively impact our revenues, and without corresponding decreases in average unit costs, would negatively impact our margins. In addition, reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees’ products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, would generally decrease total royalties payable to us, negatively impacting our licensing revenues.We compete with many different semiconductor companies, ranging from multinational companies with integrated research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing organizations across a broad spectrum of product lines, to companies that are focused on a single application market segment or standard product, including those that produce products for automotive, IoT and networking applications. Most of these competitors compete with us with respect to some, but not all, of our businesses. If revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuates, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected.Our QCT segment derives a significant portion of its revenues from a small number of customers, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. Our industry is experiencing and may continue to experience concentration of device share among a few companies, particularly at the premium tier, contributing to this trend. Also, one of our integrated circuit customers, which has historically been one of our largest customers, now utilizes products of one of our competitors in many of their devices rather than our products. We expect this customer will solely utilize one or more or our competitor’s products in its next smartphone launch and may take similar actions in the future. The loss of any one of our significant customers, a reduction in the purchases of our products by such customers or the cancelation of significant purchases by any of these customers, whether due to the use of their own integrated circuit products, our competitors’ integrated circuit products or otherwise, would reduce our revenues and could harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected results of operations, and a delay of significant purchases, even if only temporary, would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay. Any such reduction in revenues would also impact our cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development. Further, the concentration of device share among a few companies, and the corresponding purchasing power of these companies, may result in lower prices for our products which, if not accompanied by a sufficient increase in the volume of purchases of our products, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and margins. To the extent such customer takes device share from our other customers who purchase our integrated modem and application processor products, our revenues and margins may be negatively impacted. Further, companies that develop HLOS for devices, including leading technology companies, now sell their own devices. Moreover, the future growth and success of our core licensing business will depend in part on the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. We have no control over the product development, sales efforts or pricing of products by our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. Reductions in the average selling prices of wireless devices sold by our licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, would generally have an adverse effect on our licensing revenues. Such adverse impact may be muted by the per unit running royalty caps that apply to certain categories of complete wireless devices, namely smartphones, tablets and laptops.We derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from the premium-tier device segment. In addition, as discussed in the prior risk factor, our industry is experiencing concentration of device share among a few companies at the premium tier, which gives them significant supply chain leverage. Further, those companies may utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, or our competitors’ integrated circuit products, rather than our products in all or a portion of their devices. Certain legal matters are described more fully in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. See also the Risk Factor entitled “Changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations, private legal proceedings challenging those practices or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations.”49In addition, in connection with our participation in SDOs, we, like other patent owners, generally have made contractual commitments to such organizations to license those of our patents that would necessarily be infringed by standard-compliant products as set forth in those commitments. Some manufacturers and users of standard-compliant products advance interpretations of these commitments that are adverse to our licensing business, including interpretations that would limit the amount of royalties that we could collect on the licensing of our patent portfolio.Further, some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by SDOs and other industry organizations with the goal of significantly devaluing standard-essential patents. For example, some have put forth proposals which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all standard-essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. They have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with standard-essential patents based upon the number of standard-essential patents held by such company. In addition, the legal and other costs associated with asserting or defending our positions have been and continue to be significant. Further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. See also the Risk Factor entitled “Changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations, private legal proceedings challenging those practices or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations.”Changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations, private legal proceedings challenging those practices or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations.We are currently subject to various governmental investigations and private legal proceedings challenging our patent licensing practices as described more fully in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. We believe that the ultimate intent of these investigations and legal proceedings is to reduce the amount of royalties that licensees are required to pay to us for their use of our intellectual property.We have historically licensed our cellular standard-essential patents together with our other patents that may be useful to licensed products because licensees typically have desired to obtain the commercial benefits of receiving such broad patent rights from us. However, we also have licensed only our cellular standard-essential patents to certain licensees who have requested such licenses. A small number of our licensees have entered into standard-essential patent only agreements on a worldwide basis, and we expect more of our licensees may do so in the future. Our royalty rates for licenses to only our cellular standard-essential patents are lower than our royalty rates for licenses to substantially all of our patent portfolio. In addition, our licensing revenues and earnings would be negatively impacted if we were not able to obtain, in the aggregate, equivalent revenues under such a multi-level licensing structure. To the extent that we were required to implement any of these new licensing practices by modifying or renegotiating our existing license agreements, we would incur additional transaction costs, which may be significant, and we could incur delays in recognizing revenues until license negotiations were completed. The impact of any such changes to our licensing practices could vary widely and by jurisdiction, depending on the specific outcomes and the geographic scope of such outcomes. Policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and proprietary information is difficult and time consuming. The steps we have taken have not always prevented, and we cannot be certain the steps we will take in the future will prevent, the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as United States laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. Some industry participants who have a vested interest in devaluing patents in general, or standard-essential patents in particular, have mounted attacks on certain patent systems, increasing the likelihood of changes to established patent laws. In the United States, there is continued 51discussion regarding potential patent law changes and current and potential future litigation regarding patents, the outcomes of which could be detrimental to our licensing business. The laws in certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including certain countries in Asia, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the United States. We expect that the European Union will adopt a unitary patent system in the next few years that may broadly impact that region’s patent regime. We cannot predict with certainty the long-term effects of any potential changes. Additionally, although our license agreements provide us with the right to audit the books and records of licensees, audits can be expensive, time consuming, incomplete and subject to dispute. Further, certain licensees may not comply with the obligation to provide full access to their books and records. To the extent we do not aggressively enforce our rights under our license agreements, licensees may not comply with their existing license agreements, and to the extent we do not aggressively pursue unlicensed companies to enter into license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, other unlicensed companies may not enter into license agreements. Further, even a positive resolution to our enforcement efforts may take time to conclude, which may reduce our revenues and cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development, in the periods prior to conclusion. See also the Risk Factor entitled “Changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations, private legal proceedings challenging those practices or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations.”Our growth increasingly depends on our ability to extend our technologies, products and services into new and expanded product areas, such as RFFE, and adjacent industry segments outside of traditional cellular industries, such as automotive, IoT and networking, among others. Our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas and industry segments, and related technologies, products and services, as well as in our existing technologies, products and services and new technologies, such as 5G, may not generate operating income or contribute to future results of operations that meet our expectations.Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, and we must make substantial research, development and other investments, such as acquisitions, in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. Technological innovations generally require significant research and development efforts before they are commercially viable. In less favorable industry environments, in particular, we may be faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in demand for our products. During such periods, our manufacturing facilities could operate at lower capacity levels, while the fixed costs associated with full capacity continue to be incurred, resulting in lower gross profit. We are subject to many environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate our manufacturing facilities, which govern, among other things, emissions of pollutants into the air, wastewater discharges, the use and handling of hazardous substances, waste disposal, the investigation and remediation of soil and ground water contamination and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain and maintain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. We cannot make assurances that we will be at all times in compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances, joint and several, liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances. Certain of these laws also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. In addition, we could also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage.We have manufacturing facilities in Asia and Europe. If tsunamis, flooding, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters, or geopolitical conflicts, were to damage, destroy or disrupt our manufacturing facilities, it could disrupt our operations, delay new production and shipments of inventory or result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs. In addition, natural disasters or geopolitical conflicts may result in disruptions in transportation, distribution channels or supply chains, or significant increases in the prices of raw materials.Our manufacturing operations depend on securing raw materials and other supplies in adequate quality and quantity in a timely manner from multiple suppliers, and in some cases, we rely on a limited number of suppliers, particularly in Asia. Accordingly, there may be cases where supplies of raw materials and other products are interrupted by disaster, accident or some other event at a supplier, supply is suspended due to quality or other issues, or there is a shortage of supply due to a 53rapid increase in demand, which could impact production and prevent us from supplying products to our customers. If the supply-demand balance is disrupted, it may considerably increase costs of manufacturing due to increased prices we pay for raw materials or fuel. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit the amounts supplied to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Further, it may be difficult or impossible to substitute one piece of equipment for another or replace one type of material with another. A failure by our suppliers to deliver our requirements could result in disruptions to our manufacturing operations.Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and must be continuously modified to improve yields and performance. Difficulties in the production process can reduce yields or interrupt production, and as a result we may not be able to deliver products or do so in a timely, cost-effective or competitive manner. It is critical that we continue to evolve our patent portfolio, particularly in 5G. In addition, new connectivity and other services are emerging that rely on devices that may or may not be used on traditional cellular networks, such as devices used in the IoT and automotive industry segments. We also seek to diversify and broaden our technology licensing programs to new industry segments in which we can utilize our technology leadership. Standards, even de facto standards, that develop as these technologies mature, in particular those that do not include a base level of interoperability, may impact our ability to obtain royalties at all or that are equivalent to those that we receive for products used in cellular communications. Although we believe that our patented technologies are essential and useful to the commercialization of such services, any royalties we receive may be lower than those we receive from our current licensing program.Further, the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date. As a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us. In order to license or to obtain a license to such later patents after the expiration of a specified term, or to receive royalties after the specified time period, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. We might not be able to renew those license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, in the future without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications or new agreements may negatively impact our revenues. If there is a delay in renewing a license agreement prior to its expiration, there would be a delay in our ability to recognize revenues related to that licensee’s product sales. Further, if we are unable to reach agreement on such modifications or new agreements, it could result in patent infringement litigation with such companies.We depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the procurement, manufacture and testing of our products manufactured in a fabless production model. If we fail to execute supply strategies that provide technology leadership, supply assurance and low cost, our business and results of operations may be harmed. We are also subject to order and shipment uncertainties that could negatively impact our results of operations. Our QCT segment primarily utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Other than the manufacturing facilities we now operate through our RF360 Holdings joint venture, we rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. We employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. Under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and the majority of our final test requirements. 54The semiconductor manufacturing foundries that supply products to our QCT segment are primarily located in Asia, as are our primary warehouses where we store finished goods for fulfillment of customer orders. To the extent we have established alternate suppliers, these suppliers may require significant levels of support to bring complex technologies to production. As a result, we may invest a significant amount of effort and resources and incur higher costs to support and maintain such alternate suppliers. Our arrangements with our suppliers may obligate us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. To the extent we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past, have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing or limiting capacity to manufacture or test our products. Accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. Such suppliers could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce or limit deliveries to us to our detriment. In addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms from our suppliers. We cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales.Additionally, we place orders with our suppliers using our forecasts of customer demand, which are based on a number of assumptions and estimates, and are generally only partially covered by commitments from our customers. 55Claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business.From time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. These claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. We may not prevail in such litigation given, among other factors, the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. In any potential dispute involving other companies’ patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. Further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. Commitments and Contingencies.” We may engage in strategic acquisitions, transactions or make investments, or be unable to consummate planned strategic acquisitions, which could adversely affect our results of operations or fail to enhance stockholder value.We engage in strategic acquisitions and other transactions, including joint ventures, and make investments, which we believe are important to the future of our business, with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. We acquire businesses and other assets, including patents, technology, wireless spectrum and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase minority equity interests in or make loans to companies that may be private and early-stage. Recent material transactions include our RF360 Holdings joint venture with TDK Corporation and our acquisition of CSR plc. Our strategic activities may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies, products or services. In some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. In addition, we may record impairment charges related to our strategic activities. Any losses or impairment charges that we incur related to strategic activities will have a negative impact on our 56financial condition and results of operations, and we may continue to incur new or additional losses related to strategic assets or investments that we have not fully impaired or exited. Achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, including joint ventures and other strategic investments in which we have management and operational control, depends in part upon our ability to integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner and achieve anticipated synergies, and we may not be successful in these efforts. We may not derive any commercial value from associated technologies or products or from future technologies or products based on these technologies, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection that we may obtain, and we may become subject to litigation. If we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions or other strategic activities, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, and we may not enhance stockholder value by engaging in these transactions.In the absence of approval from SAMR or other material developments, we expect to terminate our proposed acquisition of NXP after the End Date. In such an event, we would not realize the benefits that we anticipated from the acquisition, including, but not limited to, increased revenues; accelerated revenue diversification; significantly expanded addressable markets and opportunities; accelerated entry into new industry segments and expansion in existing industry segments; new and expanded product offerings and technologies; accelerated expansion of sales and distribution channels; cost and other synergies; and earnings accretion from the acquisition. In addition, future acquisitions may now be more difficult, complex or expensive to the extent that our reputation for our ability to consummate acquisitions has been harmed. As part of this plan, we are implementing a series of targeted reductions across our businesses to reduce annual costs by $1 billion, excluding incremental costs resulting from any future acquisition of a business. We expect these cost reductions to be fully captured in fiscal 2019. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits within the expected time frames is subject to many estimates and assumptions, which are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If we do not succeed in these efforts, if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, if our estimates and assumptions are not correct, if we experience delays or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.We are subject to various laws, regulations, policies and standards. We are also subject to laws and regulations impacting the manufacturing operations of our RF360 Holdings joint venture. The verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. Further, if we are unable to determine that the conflict minerals used in our products do not directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the Covered Countries, we may face challenges with our customers that place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. Similarly, other laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that require additional transparency regarding the employment practices of our suppliers, and any failure to maintain responsible sourcing practices could also adversely affect our relationships with customers and our reputation.Laws, regulations, policies and standards are complex and changing and may create uncertainty regarding compliance. Laws, regulations, policies and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and their application in practice may evolve over time. As a result, our efforts to comply may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. Licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. For example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. Developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage, and we may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Also, our use and our customers’ use of open source software may subject our products and our customers’ products to governmental scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors’ products. While we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employ 58adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these rights and on our business.Our stock price, earnings and the fair value of our investments are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns.Our stock price and earnings have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Due to changes in our stock price, we are and may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management’s attention and our resources. Certain legal matters, including certain securities litigation brought against us, are described more fully in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Commitments and Contingencies.”We maintain an extensive investment portfolio of varied holdings, which are generally classified as available-for-sale and are therefore recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. The fair values of our investments are subject to fluctuation based primarily on market price volatility, as well as the underlying operations of the associated investment, among other things. If the fair value of such investments decreases below their cost basis, as some of our previous investments have, we may be required in certain circumstances to recognize a loss in our results of operations. The sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of our investment portfolio are described more fully in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended September 24, 2017 and in “Part I, Item 3. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, this significant decrease in our cash reserves will exacerbate the risks described above associated with our indebtedness. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches of our information technology systems, or other misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary or confidential information.Third parties regularly attempt to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems, and most of such attempts are increasingly more sophisticated. These attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, criminal hackers or state-sponsored intrusions, include trying to covertly introduce malware to our computers and networks, including those in our manufacturing operations, and impersonating authorized users, among others. Such attempts could result in the misappropriation, theft, misuse, disclosure or loss or destruction of the intellectual property, or the proprietary, confidential or personal information, of us or our employees, customers, licensees, suppliers or other third parties, as well as damage to or disruptions in our information technology systems. These threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures.We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems may be successful, and in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. Potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Singapore where our QCT segment’s non-United States headquarters is located. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. We regularly are subject to examination of our tax returns and reports by taxing authorities in the United States federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions, most notably in countries where we earn a routine return and the tax authorities believe substantial value-add activities are performed. Our current examinations are at various stages with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts give rise to a revision become known. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable at June 24, 2018, the final determination of tax audits and any related legal proceedings could materially differ from amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Given the amount and complexity of the changes in tax law resulting from the Tax Legislation, we have not finalized the accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Legislation. The impact of the Tax Legislation may differ from this estimate, possibly materially, during the one-year measurement period due to, among other things, further refinement of our calculations, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, guidance that may be issued and actions we may take as a result of the Tax Legislation. We have tax incentives in Singapore provided that we meet specified employment and other criteria, and as a result of the expiration of these incentives, our Singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2022 and again in fiscal 2027. If we 60do not meet the criteria required to retain such incentives, our Singapore tax rate could increase prior to fiscal 2027, and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.Tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported results of operations or the way we conduct our business. The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles related to transfer pricing. We have not yet determined what changes, if any, may be needed to our operations or structure to address BEPS. In addition, our customers’ ability to purchase or pay for our products and services and network operators’ ability to upgrade their wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancelation or delay of orders for our products or services.We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees.Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate them, which may become increasingly difficult in an environment of cost reductions. Implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. The market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive. Further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the United States, making the pool of available talent even smaller. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed.Currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the U.S. dollar cost of our products.Our customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. Our consolidated revenues from international customers and licensees as a percentage of our total revenues were greater than 90% in each of the last three fiscal years. While we continue to focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more elaborate functionality and use cases, and increasing the risk of security failures. Further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. Development of products and features in new domains of technology and the migration to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes are complex and add risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. Further, manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKFinancial market risks related to interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity prices are described in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. At June 24, 2018, there have been no material changes to the financial market risks described at September 24, 2017. We do not currently anticipate any other near-term changes in the nature of our financial market risk exposures or in management’s objectives and strategies with respect to managing such exposures.ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESEvaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSInformation regarding certain legal proceedings is provided in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Commitments and Contingencies.” We are also engaged in numerous other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business and, while there can be no assurance, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these other legal actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.ITEM 1A. At June 24, 2018, $9.0 billion remained authorized for repurchase. The stock repurchase program has no expiration date. The $10 billion stock repurchase program replaced a $15 billion stock repurchase program announced on March 9, 2015, of which $1.2 billion remained authorized for repurchase. In the event the NXP Acquisition is terminated, we intend to implement a stock repurchase program to repurchase up to $30 billion of our outstanding common stock. This new stock repurchase program, if implemented, will have no expiration date and will replace the stock repurchase program announced in May 2018. ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIESNot applicable.ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURESNot applicable.ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATIONNot applicable.63ITEM 6. Date of First Filing Exhibit Number Filed Herewith2.1 Master Transaction Agreement, dated January 13, 2016, by and among Qualcomm Global Trading Pte. Ltd., each other Purchaser Group member, TDK Japan, each other Seller Group member, and, solely for purposes of Section 10.9 thereof, QUALCOMM Incorporated. Ltd., each other Purchaser Group member, TDK Japan, each other Seller Group member, and, solely for purposes of Section 10.9 thereof, QUALCOMM Incorporated. Ltd., each other Purchaser Group member, TDK Japan, each other Seller Group member, and, solely for purposes of Section 10.9 thereof, QUALCOMM Incorporated. Ltd., each other Purchaser Group member, TDK Japan, each other Seller Group member, and, solely for purposes of Section 10.9 thereof, QUALCOMM Incorporated. 2, dated April 19, 2018, to Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2016, by and between Qualcomm River Holdings B.V. and NXP Semiconductors N.V., as amended by Amendment No. Date of First Filing Exhibit Number Filed Herewith4.9 Form of 4.650% Notes due 2035. 1, dated as of April 20, 2018, among QUALCOMM Incorporated, the lenders party thereto and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as administrative agent, to the Credit Agreement dated as of November 8, 2016, among QUALCOMM Incorporated, the lenders party thereto and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as administrative agent. 1, dated as April 20, 2018, among QUALCOMM Incorporated, the lenders party thereto and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as administrative agent, to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 6, 2018, among QUALCOMM Incorporated, the lenders party thereto and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as administrative agent. Date of First Filing Exhibit Number Filed Herewith10.64 Amendment No. 2, dated as of June 11, 2018, among QUALCOMM Incorporated, the lenders party thereto and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as administrative agent, to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 6, 2018, among QUALCOMM Incorporated, the lenders party thereto and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as administrative agent. X31.2 Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for George S. Davis. X32.1 Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, for Steve Mollenkopf. X32.2 Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, for George S. Davis. X101.INS XBRL Instance Document. X101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema. X101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase. X101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Linkbase. X101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase. X101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.