See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Financial Statements. However, the Company believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 27, 2018. The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the fiscal year. Actual results could differ from those estimates. For purposes of comparability, certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation in accordance with GAAP. The new standard is intended to provide enhanced transparency and comparability by requiring lessees to record right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities on the balance sheet. The new guidance will continue to classify leases as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statements of income. ASU 2016-02 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption and various optional practical expedients permitted. The new standard may be applied using this additional transition method or a modified retrospective approach. The Company plans to adopt the standard on January 1, 2019 using the transition relief provided by ASU 2018-11. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” ASU 2016-13 requires entities to utilize a financial instrument impairment model to establish an allowance based on expected losses over the life of the exposure rather than a model based on an incurred loss approach. ASU 2016-13 also expands the disclosure requirements regarding an entity’s assumptions, models, and methods for estimating the allowance. In addition, ASU 2016-13 modifies the impairment model for available-for-sale debt securities and provides for a simplified accounting model for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination. ASU 2016-13 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company has formed a cross-functional implementation team and is in the process of determining key accounting interpretations, data requirements and necessary changes to its credit loss estimation methods, processes and systems as well as evaluating the impact that adoption of ASU 2016-13 will have on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities.” ASU 2017-12 expands and refines the hedge accounting model for both financial and non-financial risk components, aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of hedging instruments and hedged items in the financial statements, and makes certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of hedge accounting guidance related to the assessment of hedge effectiveness. ASU 2017-12 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2017-12 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, “Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.” ASU 2018-02 allows for reclassification of stranded tax effects on items resulting from the change in the corporate tax rate as a result of H.R. 1, originally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings. Tax effects unrelated to H.R. 1 are permitted to be released from accumulated other comprehensive income using either the specific identification approach or the portfolio approach, based on the nature of the underlying item. ASU 2018-02 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company does not intend to reclassify the stranded tax effects to retained earnings pursuant to ASU 2018-02 as these amounts do not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. The Company is evaluating the impact that adoption of ASU 2018-13 will have on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement that is a Service Contract.” ASU 2018-15 requires customers in a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract to follow the internal-use software guidance in ASC 350-40, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other—Internal-Use Software,” to determine which implementation costs may be capitalized. ASU 2018-15 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The amendments in ASU 2018-15 can be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. The Company is evaluating the impact that adoption of ASU 2018-15 will have on its consolidated financial statements. Companies may adopt ASC 606 using a full retrospective or modified retrospective method. As a result, the Company identified changes to and modified certain of its accounting policies and practices. Although there were no significant changes to the Company’s accounting systems or controls upon adoption of ASC 606, the Company modified certain of its existing controls to incorporate the revisions made to its accounting policies and practices. The Company adopted the standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. The Company’s adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on its consolidated results of operations or cash flows. Upon the adoption of ASC 606, for the fulfillment of certain rewards where the AIR MILES® Reward Program does not control the goods or services before they are transferred to the collector, revenue is recorded on a net basis. See Note 2, “Revenue,” for the Company’s ASC 606 disclosures. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, “Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” ASU 2016-01 requires that equity investments be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. For equity investments without readily determinable fair values, entities have the option to either measure these investments at fair value or at cost adjusted for changes in observable prices minus impairment. Additionally, ASU 2016-01 requires entities that elect the fair value option for financial liabilities to recognize changes in fair value related to instrument-specific credit risk in other comprehensive income. Finally, entities must assess valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale debt securities in combination with their other deferred tax assets. The Company adopted this standard on January 1, 2018, resulting in a cumulative-effect adjustment of $1.5 million that was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings on the consolidated January 1, 2018 balance sheet. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, “Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” ASU 2016-15 makes eight targeted changes to how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. The Company’s adoption of this standard on January 1, 2018 did not have a material impact on its consolidated statements of cash flows. In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, “Restricted Cash.” ASU 2016-18 requires entities to show the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-18 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. The Company adopted this standard on January 1, 2018. The effect of the adoption of the standard was to include restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents at the beginning-of-period and end-of-period cash and cash equivalents totals. 2. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the Company’s historic accounting under ASC 605. ASC 606 does not apply to financial instruments and other contractual rights or obligations. Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to the customer, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The Company’s contracts with its customers state the terms of sale, including the description, quantity, and price of the product or service purchased. Payment terms can vary by contract, but the period between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. Taxes assessed on revenue-producing transactions are excluded from revenues. The Company’s products and services are reported under three segments—LoyaltyOne, Epsilon and Card Services, and are listed below. The AIR MILES Reward Program is a coalition loyalty program for sponsors, who pay LoyaltyOne a fee per AIR MILES reward mile issued, in return for which LoyaltyOne provides all marketing, customer service, rewards and redemption management. BrandLoyalty designs, implements, conducts and evaluates innovative and tailor-made short-term loyalty programs for grocers worldwide. The estimated standalone selling price for the redemption and the service performance obligations are based on cost plus a reasonable margin. The estimated standalone selling price of the brand performance obligation is determined using a relief from royalty approach. Accordingly, management determines the estimated standalone selling price by considering multiple inputs and methods, including discounted cash flows and available market data in consideration of applicable margins and royalty rates to utilize. The redemption performance obligation incorporates the expected number of AIR MILES reward miles to be redeemed, and therefore, the amount of redemption revenue recognized is subject to management’s estimate of breakage, or those AIR MILES reward miles estimated to be unredeemed by the collector base. Redemption revenue is recognized at a point in time, as the AIR MILES reward miles are redeemed. For the fulfillment of certain rewards where the AIR MILES Reward Program does not control the goods or services before they are transferred to the collector, revenue is recorded on a net basis. Service revenue is recognized over time using a time-elapsed output method, the estimated life of an AIR MILES reward mile. Revenue from the brand is recognized over time, using an output method, when an AIR MILES reward mile is issued. Revenue associated with both the service and brand is included in service revenue in the Company’s consolidated statements of income. The amount of revenue recognized in a period is subject to the estimate of breakage and the estimated life of an AIR MILES reward mile. Breakage and the life of an AIR MILES reward mile are based on management’s estimate after viewing and analyzing various historical trends including vintage analysis, current run rates and other pertinent factors, such as the impact of macroeconomic factors and changes in the program structure. As of September 30, 2018, the breakage rate was 20% and the estimated life of an AIR MILES reward mile was 38 months. The short-term loyalty programs typically last between 12 and 20 weeks, depending on the nature of the program, with contract terms usually less than one year in length. These programs are tailored for the specific retailer client and are designed to reward key customer segments based on their spending levels during defined campaign periods. Revenue is recognized at the point in time control passes from BrandLoyalty to the retailer. Contract Liabilities. The Company records a contract liability when cash payments are received in advance of its performance, which applies to the service and redemption of an AIR MILES reward mile and the reward products for its short-term loyalty programs. The deferred redemption obligation associated with the AIR MILES Reward Program is effectively due on demand from the collector base, thus the timing of revenue recognition is based on the redemption by the collector. Service revenue is amortized over the expected life of a mile, with the deferred revenue balance expected to be recognized into revenue in the amount of $47.9 million in 2018, $122.5 million in 2019, $67.7 million in 2020, and $21.3 million in 2021. Additionally, contract liabilities for the Company’s short-term loyalty programs are recognized in other current liabilities in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. The beginning balance as of January 1, 2018 was $87.5 million and the closing balance as of September 30, 2018 was $120.3 million, with the change due to cash payments received in advance of program performance revenue, offset in part by revenue recognized of approximately $301.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The Company assesses the goods and services promised in its contracts with customers and identifies a performance obligation for each good or service that is distinct. Epsilon generally enters into multi-year agreements with its customers; however, these contracts provide for termination without penalty with prior written notice. Under ASC 606, this results in a contract term shorter than the stated contractual term. The Company’s contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. If the standalone selling price is not directly observable, the Company estimates the standalone selling price based on either the adjusted market assessment or cost plus a margin approach. Certain of Epsilon’s contracts may provide for returns or cash consideration payable to its customers, which is accounted for as variable consideration. The Company estimates these amounts based on either the expected amount or most likely amount to be provided to the customer to determine the transaction price for the contract. The estimation method is consistent for contracts with similar terms and is applied consistently throughout each contract. The estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of the anticipated performance and all information that is reasonably available. The Company generates revenue from commission fees for transactions occurring on the Company’s affiliate marketing networks. Commission fee revenue is recognized on a net basis as the Company acts as an agent. Contract Liabilities. The Company records a contract liability when cash payments are received or due in advance of its performance. Contract liabilities for Epsilon are recognized in other current liabilities and other liabilities in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. The beginning balance as of January 1, 2018 was $22.8 million and the closing balance as of September 30, 2018 was $13.7 million. Contract Costs. The Company recognizes an asset for the direct costs incurred to fulfill its contracts with customers to the extent it expects to recover those costs in accordance with ASC 340-40, “Other Assets and Deferred Costs – Contracts with Customers.” As of September 30, 2018, the remaining unamortized contract costs were $5.6 million. No impairment was recognized during the periods presented. For these private label and co-brand programs, Card Services provides risk management solutions, account origination, funding, transaction processing, customer care, collections and marketing services. Finance charges, net. Finance charges, net represents revenue earned on customer accounts owned by the Company, and is recognized in the period in which it is earned. The Company recognizes earned finance charges, interest income and fees on credit card and loan receivables in accordance with the contractual provisions of the credit arrangements. Interest and fees continue to accrue on all credit card accounts beyond 90 days, except in limited circumstances, until the credit card account balance and all related interest and other fees are paid or charged-off, typically at 180 days delinquent. Charge-offs for unpaid interest and fees as well as any adjustments to the allowance associated with unpaid interest and fees are recorded as a reduction to finance charges, net. Pursuant to ASC 310-20, “Receivables - Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs,” direct loan origination costs on credit card and loan receivables are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over a one-year period and recorded as a reduction to finance charges, net. Servicing fees, net. Servicing fees, net represents revenue earned from retailers and cardholders from processing and servicing accounts, and is recognized as such services are performed. Revenue earned from retailers primarily consists of merchant and interchange fees, which are transaction fees charged to the merchant for the processing of credit card transactions. Merchant and interchange fees are recognized at a point in time upon the cardholder purchase. Our credit card program agreements may also provide for payments to the retailer based on purchased volume or if certain contractual incentives are met, such as if the economic performance of the program exceeds a contractually defined threshold. These amounts are recorded as a reduction of revenue. Revenue earned from cardholders primarily consists of monthly fees from the purchase of certain payment protection products purchased by our cardholders. The fees are based on the average cardholder account balance, and these products can be cancelled at any time by the cardholder. Revenue is recognized over time using a time-elapsed output method. Contract Costs. The Company recognizes an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining or fulfilling a contract with the retailer for a credit card program agreement to the extent it expects to recover those costs, in accordance with ASC 340-40. As of September 30, 2018, the remaining unamortized contract costs were $388.1 million and are included in other current assets and other non-current assets in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. Contract costs are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the respective term of the agreement, which represents the period of service. Depending on the nature of the contract costs, the amortization is recorded as a reduction to revenue, or costs of operations, in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income. Amortization of contract costs recorded as a reduction to revenue totaled $18.2 million and $50.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. Amortization of contract costs recorded to cost of operations expense totaled $3.0 million and $7.6 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. No impairment was recognized during the periods presented. The Company has elected the practical expedient from ASC 340-40 with respect to contract costs, and expenses the incremental costs as incurred for those costs that would otherwise be recognized with an amortization period of one year or less. These costs are primarily related to sales commissions, and such expensed incremental costs are recorded to cost of operations expense in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income. 4. This acquisition increases the Company’s presence in the jewelry vertical. The Company determined these acquired activities and assets constituted a business under ASC 805, “Business Combinations,” based on the nature of the inputs, processes and outputs acquired from the transaction. In addition, the parties entered into a long-term agreement under which the Company became the primary issuer of private-label credit cards and related marketing services for Signet. The Company obtained control of the assets and assumed the liabilities on October 20, 2017, and the results of operations have been included since the date of acquisition in the Company’s Card Services segment. The Company engaged a third party specialist to assist it in the measurement of the fair value of the assets acquired. The fair value of the assets acquired exceeded the cost of the acquisition. Consequently, the Company reassessed the recognition and measurement of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed and concluded that the valuation procedures and resulting measures were appropriate. The excess value of the net assets acquired over the purchase price of $7.9 million was recorded as a bargain purchase gain, which was included in cost of operations in the Company’s consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2017. The allowance for loan loss covers forecasted uncollectible principal as well as unpaid interest and fees. The allowance for loan loss is evaluated monthly for appropriateness. In estimating the allowance for principal loan losses, management utilizes a migration analysis of delinquent and current credit card and loan receivables. Migration analysis is a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a credit card or loan receivable will progress through the various stages of delinquency and to charge-off. The allowance is maintained through an adjustment to the provision for loan loss. Charge-offs of principal amounts, net of recoveries are deducted from the allowance. In estimating the allowance for uncollectible unpaid interest and fees, the Company utilizes historical charge-off trends, analyzing actual charge-offs for the prior three months. The allowance is maintained through an adjustment to finance charges, net. In evaluating the allowance for loan loss for both principal and unpaid interest and fees, management also considers factors that may impact loan loss experience, including seasoning and growth, account collection strategies, economic conditions, bankruptcy filings, policy changes, payment rates and forecasting uncertainties. Charged‑off interest and fees reduce finance charges, net while fraud losses are recorded as an expense. Credit card and loan receivables, including unpaid interest and fees, are charged-off in the month during which an account becomes 180 days contractually past due, except in the case of customer bankruptcies or death. Credit card and loan receivables, including unpaid interest and fees, associated with customer bankruptcies or death are charged-off in each month subsequent to 60 days after the receipt of notification of the bankruptcy or death, but in any case, not later than the 180-day contractual time frame. The Company records the actual charge-offs for unpaid interest and fees as a reduction to finance charges, net. Actual charge-offs for unpaid interest and fees were $193.8 million and $152.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $575.3 million and $469.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. It is the Company’s policy to continue to accrue interest and fee income on all credit card accounts beyond 90 days, except in limited circumstances, until the credit card account balance and all related interest and other fees are paid or charged-off, typically at 180 days delinquent. When an account becomes delinquent, a message is printed on the credit cardholder’s billing statement requesting payment. After an account becomes 30 days past due, a proprietary collection scoring algorithm automatically scores the risk of the account becoming further delinquent. The collection system then recommends a collection strategy for the past due account based on the collection score and account balance and dictates the contact schedule and collections priority for the account. If the Company is unable to make a collection after exhausting all in-house collection efforts, the Company may engage collection agencies and outside attorneys to continue those efforts. The Company’s modified credit card receivables include credit card receivables for which temporary hardship concessions have been granted and credit card receivables in permanent workout programs. These modified credit card receivables include concessions consisting primarily of a reduced minimum payment and an interest rate reduction. The temporary programs’ concessions remain in place for a period no longer than twelve months, while the permanent programs remain in place through the payoff of the credit card receivables if the credit cardholder complies with the terms of the program. These concessions do not include the forgiveness of unpaid principal, but may involve the reversal of certain unpaid interest or fee assessments. In the case of the temporary programs, at the end of the concession period, credit card receivable terms revert to standard rates. These arrangements are automatically terminated if the customer fails to make payments in accordance with the terms of the program, at which time their account reverts back to its original terms. Credit card receivables for which temporary hardship and permanent concessions were granted are each considered troubled debt restructurings and are collectively evaluated for impairment. Modified credit card receivables are evaluated at their present value with impairment measured as the difference between the credit card receivable balance and the discounted present value of cash flows expected to be collected. Consistent with the Company’s measurement of impairment of modified credit card receivables on a pooled basis, the discount rate used for credit card receivables is the average current annual percentage rate the Company applies to non-impaired credit card receivables, which approximates what would have been applied to the pool of modified credit card receivables prior to impairment. In assessing the appropriate allowance for loan loss, these modified credit card receivables are included in the general pool of credit card receivables with the allowance determined under the contingent loss model of ASC 450-20, “Loss Contingencies.” If the Company applied accounting under ASC 310-40, “Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors,” to the modified credit card receivables in these programs, there would not be a material difference in the allowance for loan loss. The Company had $325.9 million and $260.2 million, respectively, as a recorded investment in impaired credit card receivables with an associated allowance for loan loss of $118.6 million and $56.1 million, respectively, as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. These modified credit card receivables represented less than 2% of the Company’s total credit card receivables as of both September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The average recorded investment in impaired credit card receivables was $338.9 million and $233.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $352.8 million and $222.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Interest income on these modified credit card receivables is accounted for in the same manner as other accruing credit card receivables. Cash collections on these modified credit card receivables are allocated according to the same payment hierarchy methodology applied to credit card receivables that are not in such programs. The Company recognized $6.7 million and $5.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $22.0 million and $14.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, in interest income associated with modified credit card receivables during the period that such credit card receivables were impaired. The proprietary scoring models are used as a tool in the underwriting process and for making credit decisions. The proprietary scoring models are based on historical data and require various assumptions about future performance, which the Company updates periodically. Information regarding customer performance is factored into these proprietary scoring models to determine the probability of an account becoming 91 or more days past due at any time within the next 12 months. Obligor credit quality is monitored at least monthly during the life of an account. After origination, these loan receivables were sold to the client at par value plus accrued interest. These transfers qualified for sale treatment as they met the conditions established in ASC 860-10, “Transfers and Servicing.” Following the sale, the client owned the loan receivables, assumed the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults and was responsible for all servicing functions related to the loan receivables. The loan receivables originated by the Company that had not yet been sold to the client were $0.0 million and $126.9 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, and are included in credit card and loan receivables held for sale in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets and carried at the lower of cost or fair value. The carrying value of these loan receivables approximated fair value due to the short duration between the date of origination and sale. Originations and sales of these loan receivables held for sale were reflected as operating activities in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company transferred six portfolios to held for sale at the net carrying amount inclusive of the related reserves for losses, as the fair value was estimated to be greater than the net carrying amount, and such amount was the measurement basis. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company sold one portfolio for final cash consideration of approximately $55.4 million and recognized a de minimis gain on the transaction. Additionally, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recorded valuation adjustments of $28.1 million and $64.0 million, respectively, to reduce the value of certain portfolios within credit card and loan receivables held for sale. The Company carries its credit card and loan receivables held for sale at the lower of cost or fair value. In October 2018, the Company sold two portfolios for preliminary cash consideration of approximately $247.8 million, subject to customary sale price adjustments. The Company continues to own and service the accounts that generate credit card receivables held by the WFN Trusts and the WFC Trust. In its capacity as a servicer, each of the respective banks earns a fee from the WFN Trusts and the WFC Trust to service and administer the credit card receivables, collect payments and charge-off uncollectible receivables. These fees are eliminated and therefore are not reflected in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. The WFN Trusts and the WFC Trust are VIEs and the assets of these consolidated VIEs include certain credit card receivables that are restricted to settle the obligations of those entities and are not expected to be available to the Company or its creditors. The liabilities of the consolidated VIEs include non-recourse secured borrowings and other liabilities for which creditors or beneficial interest holders do not have recourse to the general credit of the Company. Inventories, net are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value and valued primarily on a first-in-first-out basis. The Company records valuation adjustments to its inventories if the cost of inventory exceeds the amount it expects to realize from the ultimate sale or disposal of the inventory. These estimates are based on management’s judgment regarding future market conditions and an analysis of historical experience. 7. When evaluating the investments for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition of the security’s issuer, and the Company’s intent to sell the security and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. The Company typically invests in highly-rated securities with low probabilities of default and has the intent and ability to hold the investments until maturity. As of September 30, 2018, the Company does not consider the investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired. There were no realized gains or losses from the sale of investment securities for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. 8. When evaluating the investments for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition of the security’s issuer, and the Company’s intent to sell the security and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. The Company typically invests in highly-rated securities with low probabilities of default and has the intent and ability to hold the investments until maturity. As of September 30, 2018, the Company does not consider the investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired. There were no realized gains or losses from the sale of investment securities for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and realized gains and losses on the sale of investment securities for nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were de minimis. At September 30, 2018, the weighted average interest rate was 3.97% and 3.99% for the revolving line of credit and term loans, respectively. At September 30, 2018, the weighted average interest rate was 1.21% and 1.65% for the BrandLoyalty revolving line of credit and term loans, respectively. At September 30, 2018, the interest rates ranged from 1.90% to 2.60%. At September 30, 2018, the interest rates ranged from 3.23% to 3.59%. At September 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with its financial covenants. The BrandLoyalty credit agreement provided for a reduction in commitment on each of the uncommitted and committed revolving lines of credit of €25.0 million in August 2018, for a committed revolving line of credit of €37.5 million and an uncommitted revolving line of credit of €37.5 million as of September 30, 2018. The Company funded the redemption with borrowings under its revolving line of credit. The offering consisted of $525.0 million of Class A notes with a fixed interest rate of 3.07% per year and $66.5 million of notes that were retained by the Company and eliminated from the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. The offering consisted of $300.0 million Class A notes with a fixed interest rate of 3.46% per year, $22.3 million of Class M notes with a fixed interest rate of 3.81% per year and $15.2 million of notes which were retained by the Company and eliminated from the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. As of September 30, 2018, the Company had collected $266.7 million of principal payments made by its credit cardholders during the accumulation period for the repayment of the Series 2012-C notes. The cash is restricted to the securitization investors and is reflected in other current assets in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2018. In August 2018, Master Trust I amended its 2009-VFN conduit facility, increasing the capacity from $800.0 million to $1,180.0 million and extending the maturity to September 2020. In August 2018, Master Trust III amended its 2009-VFC conduit facility, decreasing the capacity from $1,680.0 million to $1,300.0 million and extending the maturity to September 2020. As of September 30, 2018, total capacity under the conduit facilities was $4.5 billion, of which $2.7 billion had been drawn and was included in non-recourse borrowings of consolidated securitization entities in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. 11. The Company limits its exposure on derivatives by entering into contracts with institutions that are established dealers who maintain certain minimum credit criteria established by the Company. At September 30, 2018, the Company does not maintain any derivative instruments subject to master agreements that would require the Company to post collateral or that contain any credit-risk related contingent features. The Company enters into foreign currency derivatives to reduce the volatility of the Company’s cash flows resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates associated with certain inventory transactions, some of which are designated as cash flow hedges. The Company generally hedges foreign currency exchange rate risks for periods of 12 months or less. As of September 30, 2018, the maximum term over which the Company is hedging its exposure to the variability of future cash flows associated with certain inventory transactions is 10 months. Certain foreign currency exchange forward contracts are not designated as hedges as they do not meet the specific hedge accounting requirements of ASC 815, “Derivatives and Hedging.” Changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments are recorded in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income as they occur. Gains and losses on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments are included in other operating activities in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for all periods presented. Gains of $0.6 million and losses of $0.3 million, net of tax, were recognized in other comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively, related to foreign currency exchange hedges designated as effective. Changes in the fair value of these hedges, excluding any ineffective portion are recorded in other comprehensive income until the hedged transactions affect net income. The ineffective portion of these cash flow hedges impacts net income when ineffectiveness occurs. At September 30, 2018, $0.5 million is expected to be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net income in the coming 12 months. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, gains of $2.9 million and $9.3 million, respectively, related to foreign currency exchange forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments were recognized in general and administrative expense in the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income. The net investment hedge is intended to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the Euro with respect to the U.S. dollar. The change in fair value of the net investment hedges due to remeasurement of the effective portion is recorded in other comprehensive income. The ineffective portion of this hedging instrument impacts net income when the ineffectiveness occurs. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, gains of $3.6 million and $22.9 million, net of tax, respectively, were recognized in other comprehensive income and no ineffectiveness was recorded on the net investment hedges. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, losses of $12.0 million and $39.4 million, net of tax, respectively, were recognized in other comprehensive income and no ineffectiveness was recorded on the net investment hedges. 12. At July 31, 2018, $280.3 million of this program expired unused. On July 26, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program to acquire up to $500.0 million of the Company’s outstanding common stock from August 1, 2018 through July 31, 2019. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company acquired a total of 0.9 million shares of its common stock for $201.7 million under its respective stock repurchase programs. The Company acquired approximately 0.8 million shares of its common stock for $166.0 million under its previous stock repurchase program and acquired approximately 0.1 million shares of its common stock for $35.7 million under its current stock repurchase program. As of September 30, 2018, the Company had $464.3 million remaining under its current stock repurchase program. Service-based restricted stock units typically vest ratably over three years provided that the participant is employed by the Company on each such vesting date. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company awarded 263,542 performance-based restricted stock units with a weighted average grant date fair value per share of $240.65 as determined on the date of grant with pre-defined vesting criteria that permit a range from 0% to 150% to be earned. If the performance targets are met, the restrictions will lapse with respect to 33% of the award on February 15, 2019, an additional 33% of the award on February 15, 2020 and the final 34% of the award on February 18, 2021, provided that the participant is employed by the Company on each such vesting date. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company also awarded 28,057 restricted stock units with a market-based condition subject to pre-defined vesting criteria that permit a range from 0% to 175% to be earned. The fair market value of these awards is $220.56 and was estimated utilizing Monte Carlo simulations of the Company’s stock price correlation, expected volatility and risk-free rate over two-year time horizons matching the performance period. On April 19, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.57 per share on the Company’s common stock, payable on June 19, 2018, to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 14, 2018, resulting in a dividend payment of $31.5 million on June 19, 2018. On July 19, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.57 per share on the Company’s common stock, payable on September 19, 2018, to stockholders of record at the close of business on August 14, 2018, resulting in a dividend payment of $31.2 million on September 19, 2018. Additionally, the Company paid $0.3 million in cash related to dividend equivalent rights for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. On October 18, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.57 per share on the Company’s common stock, payable on December 19, 2018, to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 14, 2018. 13. Reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net income for each of the periods presented were not material. To obtain fair values, observable market prices are used if available. In some instances, observable market prices are not readily available and fair value is determined using present value or other techniques appropriate for a particular financial instrument. These techniques involve judgment and as a result are not necessarily indicative of the amounts the Company would realize in a current market exchange. The use of different assumptions or estimation techniques may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. Credit card and loan receivables held for sale — The Company utilizes a discounted cash flow model using unobservable inputs, including forecasted yields and net charge-off estimates to estimate the fair value measurement of the credit card portfolios held for sale. Loan receivables held for sale are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value, and their carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short duration of the holding period of the loan receivables prior to sale. Redemption settlement assets, restricted — Redemption settlement assets, restricted are recorded at fair value based on quoted market prices for the same or similar securities. Other investments — Other investments consist of marketable securities and U.S. Treasury bonds and are included in other current assets and other non-current assets in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. Other investments are recorded at fair value based on quoted market prices for the same or similar securities. Deposits — The fair value is estimated based on the current observable market rates available to the Company for similar deposits with similar remaining maturities. Non-recourse borrowings of consolidated securitization entities — The fair value is estimated based on the current observable market rates available to the Company for similar debt instruments with similar remaining maturities or quoted market prices for the same transaction. Long-term and other debt — The fair value is estimated based on the current observable market rates available to the Company for similar debt instruments with similar remaining maturities or quoted market prices for the same transaction. Derivative instruments — The Company’s foreign currency cash flow hedges are recorded at fair value based on a discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each derivative. This analysis reflected the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period to maturity, and used observable market-based inputs. The fair value of the foreign currency forward contracts is estimated based on published quotations of spot foreign currency rates and forward points which are converted into implied foreign currency rates. Financial instruments are considered Level 3 when their values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques and at least one significant model assumption or input is unobservable. Level 3 financial instruments also include those for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. The use of different techniques to determine fair value of these financial instruments could result in different estimates of fair value at the reporting date. There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 within the fair value hierarchy for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. For each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, the Company utilized an effective tax rate of 30.1% and 33.2%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was due to the reduction in the federal statutory rate pursuant to tax reform enacted in December 2017. This rate reduction led to a tax benefit associated with accelerated deductions relating to software development costs and bad debts as well as the deferral of income relating to certain state tax refunds. The Company’s chief operating decision maker is the President and Chief Executive Officer. The operating segments are reviewed separately because each operating segment represents a strategic business unit that generally offers different products. Adjusted EBITDA, net is also a non-GAAP financial measure equal to adjusted EBITDA less securitization funding costs and interest expense on deposits. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, net are presented in accordance with ASC 280 as they are the primary performance metrics utilized to assess performance of the segments. Forward-looking statements give our expectations or forecasts of future events and can generally be identified by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “project,” “plan,” “likely,” “may,” “should” or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. We believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. Forward-looking statements, however, are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this report, and no assurances can be given that our expectations will prove to have been correct. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from what we projected. Any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-Q speak only as of the date made, and we undertake no obligation, other than as required by applicable law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events, anticipated or unanticipated circumstances or otherwise. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto presented in this quarterly report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 27, 2018. In the exercise of its business judgment, our board of directors has undertaken a strategic evaluation of our current portfolio of businesses as we believe our current stock price does not reflect the intrinsic value of the entire enterprise. Therefore, we are further evaluating which assets may thrive under a different steward while also unlocking value for our stockholders. This could involve significant realignment of our businesses and we are actively evaluating that optimal strategy. The results of this evaluation and our determination of that strategy are expected to be complete before year end. We will communicate those results when appropriate. Total revenue increased $34.8 million, or 2%, to $1,947.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $1,912.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Revenue decreased $64.3 million, or 10%, to $586.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as a result of a $29.8 million decrease in marketing services revenue primarily due to declines in lower margin pass-through agency and site-based display product offerings, a $19.7 million decrease in other servicing fees charged to cardholders due in part to decreased purchases of certain payment protection products, and a $17.5 million decrease in merchant fees, which are transaction fees charged to the retailer, as a result of increased payments to clients. Redemption, net. Revenue decreased $46.4 million, or 22%, to $163.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Upon adoption of ASC 606, certain redemption revenue for which we do not control the good or service prior to transferring it to the collector is recorded on a net basis, which reduced both redemption revenue and cost of operations by $69.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $27.6 million in redemption revenue from our short-term loyalty programs due to an increase in the number of active programs in market. Finance charges, net. Revenue increased $145.5 million, or 14%, to $1,197.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, driven by a 10% increase in average credit card and loan receivables due to recent credit card portfolio acquisitions and new client signings, which impacted revenue by $130.4 million, and a higher finance charge yield, which impacted revenue by $15.1 million. Cost of operations. Cost of operations decreased $5.9 million, or 1%, to $1,060.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $1,066.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. This decrease in cost of redemptions was driven by a $69.1 million decrease related to the adoption of ASC 606 as discussed above, offset in part by the increase in cost of redemptions related to our short-term loyalty programs due to the increase in revenue. Within the Epsilon segment, cost of operations decreased $22.1 million, or 5%, due to a decrease in direct costs associated with a 4% decline in revenue. Within the Card Services segment, cost of operations increased $70.3 million due to an 18% increase in payroll and benefit expenses to support operational initiatives and in-house collections, a 5% increase in marketing expenses to drive credit sales and additional professional fees to support operational initiatives. Further, other operating expenses increased due to higher credit card processing costs attributable to increases in volume associated with growth in credit card and loan receivables. Provision for loan loss. Provision for loan loss decreased $7.9 million, or 4%, to $196.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $204.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017, due to the change in credit card and loan receivables in each respective period, offset in part by an increase in net charge-offs. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $7.3 million, or 19%, to $45.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $38.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017, due to an increase in general corporate expenses and higher payroll and benefit costs. Depreciation and other amortization. Depreciation and other amortization increased $3.0 million, or 6%, to $49.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $46.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017, due to additional assets placed into service from recent capital expenditures. Amortization of purchased intangibles. Amortization of purchased intangibles decreased $4.8 million, or 6%, to $72.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to $77.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017, primarily due to certain fully amortized intangible assets, including customer databases. Total interest expense, net increased $23.6 million, or 16%, to $168.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $145.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Securitization funding costs increased $17.9 million due to higher average borrowings, which increased funding costs by approximately $9.0 million, and higher average interest rates, which increased funding costs by approximately $8.9 million. Interest expense on deposits increased $10.2 million due to higher average interest rates, which increased interest expense by approximately $5.3 million, and higher average borrowings, which increased interest expense by approximately $4.9 million. Interest expense on long-term and other debt, net decreased $4.5 million primarily due to a $13.3 million decrease in interest expense on senior notes primarily due to the repayment of senior notes in December 2017 and April 2018. These decreases were offset in part by a $5.7 million increase in interest expense on the revolving line of credit and a $4.7 million increase in interest expense on term debt due to higher average borrowings and higher average interest rates due to increases in the LIBOR rate. Taxes. Income tax expense decreased $43.8 million to $56.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $100.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017, due to the reduction in the federal statutory rate pursuant to tax reform enacted in December 2017. This rate reduction led to a tax benefit associated with accelerated deductions relating to software development costs and bad debts as well as the deferral of income relating to certain state tax refunds. The effective tax rate for the current quarter was 16.0% as compared to 30.1% for the prior year quarter. Total revenue increased $122.1 million, or 2%, to $5,735.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from $5,613.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Revenue decreased $97.6 million, or 5%, to $1,790.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as a result of a $77.1 million decrease in marketing services revenue due to declines in lower margin pass‑through agency and site-based display product offerings, an $18.8 million decrease in merchant fees, which are transaction fees charged to the retailer, as a result of increased payments to clients, and a $15.9 million decrease in other servicing fees charged to cardholders due in part to decreased purchases of certain payment protection products. Redemption, net. Revenue decreased $202.4 million, or 31%, to $443.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Upon adoption of ASC 606, certain redemption revenue for which we do not control the good or service prior to transferring it to the collector is recorded on a net basis, which reduced both redemption revenue and cost of operations by $214.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $16.4 million in redemption revenue from our short-term loyalty programs due to an increase in the number of active programs in market. Finance charges, net. Revenue increased $422.1 million, or 14%, to $3,501.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, driven by a 12% increase in average credit card and loan receivables, which impacted revenue by $447.3 million through a combination of recent credit card portfolio acquisitions and new client signings, offset in part by a decline in yield, which negatively impacted revenue by $25.2 million. Cost of operations. Cost of operations decreased $46.9 million, or 2%, to $3,076.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $3,123.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. This decrease in cost of redemptions was driven by a $214.0 million decrease related to the adoption of ASC 606 as discussed above, offset in part by the increase in cost of redemptions related to our short-term loyalty programs due to the increase in revenue. Within the Card Services segment, cost of operations increased $229.2 million due to a 17% increase in payroll and benefit expenses to support in-house collections and operational initiatives, an 11% increase in marketing expenses to drive credit sales and additional professional fees to support operational initiatives. Further, other operating expenses increased due to higher credit card processing costs attributable to increases in volume associated with growth in credit card and loan receivables and valuation adjustments to certain portfolios within credit card and loan receivables held for sale. Provision for loan loss. Provision for loan loss increased $38.4 million, or 5%, to $846.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $807.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The increase in the provision for loan loss was driven by an increase in net charge-offs in each respective period. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $1.6 million, or 1%, to $126.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $124.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, due to an increase in general corporate expenses that were offset in part by a $7.7 million decrease in net foreign currency exchange losses realized and lower payroll and benefit costs. Depreciation and other amortization. Depreciation and other amortization increased $9.3 million, or 7%, to $145.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $136.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, due to additional assets placed into service from recent capital expenditures. Amortization of purchased intangibles. Amortization of purchased intangibles decreased $17.6 million, or 7%, to $220.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to $237.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, primarily due to certain fully amortized intangible assets, including customer databases and portfolio premiums. Interest expense, net. Total interest expense, net increased $85.8 million, or 21%, to $493.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $408.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Securitization funding costs increased $53.5 million due to higher average borrowings, which increased funding costs by approximately $27.3 million, and higher average interest rates, which increased funding costs by approximately $26.2 million. Interest expense on deposits increased $27.7 million due to higher average borrowings, which increased interest expense by approximately $18.9 million, and higher average interest rates, which increased interest expense by approximately $8.8 million. Interest expense on long-term and other debt, net increased $4.6 million primarily due to a $21.3 million increase in interest expense on term debt and a $9.1 million increase in interest expense on the revolving line of credit due to higher average borrowings and higher average interest rates due to increases in the LIBOR rate. These increases were offset in part by a $25.7 million decrease in interest expense on senior notes primarily due to the repayment of senior notes in December 2017 and April 2018. Taxes. Income tax expense decreased $109.3 million to $148.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from $257.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, due to the reduction in the federal statutory rate pursuant to tax reform enacted in December 2017. This rate reduction led to a tax benefit associated with accelerated deductions relating to software development costs and bad debts as well as the deferral of income relating to certain state tax refunds. Additionally, income tax expense in the current year period was positively impacted by a tax benefit associated with foreign restructuring in the current year. These benefits were offset in part by the negative impact of the Supreme Court’s decision in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was 17.9% as compared to 33.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Adjusted EBITDA, net is also a non-GAAP financial measure equal to adjusted EBITDA less securitization funding costs and interest expense on deposits. We use adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, net as an integral part of our internal reporting to measure the performance of our reportable segments and to evaluate the performance of our senior management, and we believe it provides useful information to our investors regarding our performance and overall results of operations. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, net are each considered an important indicator of the operational strength of our businesses. Adjusted EBITDA eliminates the uneven effect across all business segments of considerable amounts of non-cash depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets, including certain intangible assets that were recognized in business combinations. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues in our businesses. Management evaluates the costs of such tangible and intangible assets, such as capital expenditures, investment spending and return on capital and therefore the effects are excluded from adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA also eliminates the non-cash effect of stock compensation expense. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, net are not intended to be performance measures that should be regarded as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, either operating income or net income as indicators of operating performance or to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, net are not intended to represent funds available for dividends, reinvestment or other discretionary uses, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. The adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, net measures presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies, and may not be identical to corresponding measures used in our various agreements. Total revenue increased $34.8 million, or 2%, to $1,947.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $1,912.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Revenue decreased $45.0 million, or 15%, to $260.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 primarily due to the adoption of ASC 606, which negatively impacted revenue by $69.1 million. This decrease was offset in part by a $27.6 million increase in redemption revenue from our short-term loyalty programs due to an increase in the number of active programs in market. Epsilon. Revenue decreased $21.1 million, or 4%, to $537.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, driven by declines in lower margin agency and site-based display product offerings as compared to the prior year period. Card Services. Revenue increased $107.5 million, or 10%, to $1,162.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, driven by a $145.5 million increase in finance charges, net as a result of a 10% increase in average credit card and loan receivables. This increase was offset in part by a $19.7 million decrease in other servicing fees charged to cardholders due in part to decreased purchases of certain payment protection products and a $17.5 million decrease in merchant fees, which are transaction fees charged to the retailer, as a result of increased payments to clients. Adjusted EBITDA, net. Adjusted EBITDA, net increased $12.8 million, or 2%, to $562.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $550.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Adjusted EBITDA, net increased $2.4 million, or 4%, to $63.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 primarily due to the $27.6 million increase in redemption revenue from our short-term loyalty programs discussed above. Epsilon. Adjusted EBITDA, net was $125.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $125.0 million in the prior year quarter due to a favorable revenue mix toward higher margin product offerings, offset by the decrease in revenue. Card Services. Adjusted EBITDA, net increased $17.0 million, or 4%, to $414.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Adjusted EBITDA, net was positively impacted by an increase in finance charges, net but was tempered by lower gross yields, a function of client mix and higher funding costs. Adjusted EBITDA, net decreased $6.8 million to a loss of $40.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 due to an increase in general corporate expenses and higher payroll and benefit costs. Total revenue increased $122.1 million, or 2%, to $5,735.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from $5,613.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Revenue decreased $183.2 million, or 20%, to $735.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 primarily due to the adoption of ASC 606, which negatively impacted revenue by $214.0 million. This decrease was offset in part by an increase of $35.2 million in revenue from our short-term loyalty programs primarily due to an increase in the number of active programs in market. Epsilon. Revenue decreased $70.6 million, or 4%, to $1,561.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 primarily due to declines in lower margin agency and site-based display product offerings as compared to the prior year period. Card Services. Revenue increased $382.9 million, or 12%, to $3,466.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, driven by a $422.1 million increase in finance charges, net as a result of a 12% increase in average credit card and loan receivables. This increase was offset in part by an $18.8 million decrease in merchant fees, which are transaction fees charged to the retailer, as a result of increased payments to clients and a $15.9 million decrease in other servicing fees charged to cardholders due in part to decreased purchases of certain payment protection products. Adjusted EBITDA, net. Adjusted EBITDA, net increased $48.5 million, or 3%, to $1,471.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from $1,423.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Adjusted EBITDA, net increased $10.4 million, or 6%, to $186.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, driven by increases in both our coalition and short-term loyalty programs. Epsilon. Adjusted EBITDA, net increased $6.9 million, or 2%, to $323.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to a favorable revenue mix toward higher margin product offerings in the current year period as compared to the prior year period, offset in part by the decrease in revenue. Card Services. Adjusted EBITDA, net increased $35.1 million, or 3%, to $1,068.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Adjusted EBITDA, net was positively impacted by an increase in finance charges, net. This increase was primarily offset by an increase in the provision for loan loss resulting from higher net charge-offs, an increase in payroll and benefit expenses to support in-house collections and operational initiatives, valuation adjustments to certain portfolios within credit card and loan receivables held for sale, and higher funding costs. Adjusted EBITDA, net decreased $3.9 million to a loss of $107.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to an increase in general corporate expenses that were offset in part by lower payroll and benefit costs and a decrease in net foreign currency exchange losses realized. Delinquencies. A credit card account is contractually delinquent when we do not receive the minimum payment by the specified due date on the cardholder’s statement. Our policy is to continue to accrue interest and fee income on all credit card accounts beyond 90 days, except in limited circumstances, until the credit card account balance and all related interest and other fees are paid or charged-off, typically at 180 days delinquent. When an account becomes delinquent, a message is printed on the credit cardholder’s billing statement requesting payment. The collection system then recommends a collection strategy for the past due account based on the collection score and account balance and dictates the contact schedule and collections priority for the account. If we are unable to make a collection after exhausting all in-house collection efforts, we may engage collection agencies and outside attorneys to continue those efforts. Our net charge-offs include the principal amount of losses from cardholders unwilling or unable to pay their account balances, as well as bankrupt and deceased credit cardholders, less recoveries and exclude charged-off interest, fees and fraud losses. Charged-off interest and fees reduce finance charges, net while fraud losses are recorded as an expense. Credit card and loan receivables, including unpaid interest and fees, are charged-off in the month during which an account becomes 180 days contractually past due, except in the case of customer bankruptcies or death. Credit card and loan receivables, including unpaid interest and fees, associated with customer bankruptcies or death are charged-off in each month subsequent to 60 days after the receipt of notification of the bankruptcy or death, but in any case, not later than the 180-day contractual time frame. The net charge-off rate is calculated by dividing net charge-offs of principal receivables for the period by the average credit card and loan receivables for the period. Average credit card and loan receivables represent the average balance of the cardholder receivables at the beginning of each month in the periods indicated. In addition to our efforts to renew and expand our current liquidity sources, we continue to seek new funding sources. Quantitative measures established by regulations to ensure capital adequacy require Comenity Bank and Comenity Capital Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 and total capital to risk weighted assets and of Tier 1 capital to average assets. As of September 30, 2018, Comenity Bank’s Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 14.1%, Tier 1 capital ratio was 14.1%, total capital ratio was 15.4% and leverage ratio was 12.2%. As of September 30, 2018, Comenity Capital Bank’s Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 15.3%, Tier 1 capital ratio was 15.3%, total capital ratio was 16.6% and leverage ratio was 13.6%. Comenity Bank and Comenity Capital Bank are considered well capitalized. We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases or exchanges for other securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. We believe that internally generated funds and other sources of liquidity discussed below will be sufficient to meet working capital needs, capital expenditures, and other business requirements for at least the next 12 months. We generated cash flow from operating activities of $2,025.4 million and $1,758.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The year-over-year increase in operating cash flows of $266.6 million was primarily due to an increase in profitability and a net increase in cash flows associated with credit card portfolios that were originated or purchased with the intent to sell. Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities was $860.7 million and $1,611.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Cash decreased $37.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 due to additional investments in corporate bonds within the redemption settlement assets. Cash decreased $213.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 as we increased funding to the redemption settlement assets as a result of the breakage rate change in December 2016. Cash decreased $708.1 million and $1,174.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, due to growth in credit card and loan receivables in each respective period. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we received cash consideration of $55.4 million from the sale of one credit card portfolio. Cash paid for capital expenditures was $149.3 million and $176.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Financing Activities. Cash used in financing activities was $1,506.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and cash provided by financing activities was $1,723.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Cash decreased $258.7 million in net repayments for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to the early repayment of $500.0 million 6.375% senior notes due 2020. Cash increased $535.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, primarily due to the issuance of €400.0 million senior notes due 2022 and net borrowings under the revolving line of credit. Cash decreased $1,337.7 million and $90.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, due to net repayments and maturities under the asset-backed term notes and conduit facilities. Net repayments under the conduit facilities were $1,100.0 million in the current year period as compared to $265.0 million in the prior year period. Cash increased $421.3 million and $1,987.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, due to new issuances, offset in part by timing of maturities. Cash paid for quarterly dividends and dividend equivalents was $94.5 million and $86.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Cash paid for treasury shares was $197.0 million and $553.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We funded the redemption with borrowings under our revolving line of credit. As of September 30, 2018, we had $772.0 million outstanding under our revolving line of credit and total availability of $800.4 million. Our total leverage ratio, as defined in our credit agreement, was 2.4 to 1 at September 30, 2018, as compared to the maximum covenant ratio of 3.5 to 1. The BrandLoyalty credit agreement, as amended in June 2016, provided for a reduction in commitment on each of the uncommitted and committed revolving lines of credit of €25.0 million in August 2018, reducing the total capacity from €125.0 million to €75.0 million. As of September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with our debt covenants. As of September 30, 2018, we had $3.4 billion in money market deposits outstanding with interest rates ranging from 1.90% to 2.60%. Money market deposits are redeemable on demand by the customer and, as such, have no scheduled maturity date. As of September 30, 2018, we had $8.0 billion in certificates of deposit outstanding with interest rates ranging from 1.25% to 4.00% and maturities ranging from October 2018 to September 2023. Certificate of deposit borrowings are subject to regulatory capital requirements. We also sell our credit card receivables originated by Comenity Capital Bank to World Financial Capital Credit Company, LLC, which in turn sells them to World Financial Capital Master Note Trust, or the WFC Trust. These securitization programs are a principal vehicle through which we finance Comenity Bank’s and Comenity Capital Bank’s credit card receivables. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Master Trust I issued $929.0 million of asset-backed term notes with February 2021 and September 2021 maturities, of which $81.7 million were retained by us and eliminated from the consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, $1.5 billion of asset-backed term notes matured and were repaid, of which $375.5 million were retained by us and eliminated from the consolidated balance sheets. In October 2018, $266.7 million of Series 2012-C asset-backed term notes, $10.7 million of which were retained by us and eliminated from the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets, matured and were repaid. As of September 30, 2018, the WFN Trusts and the WFC Trust had approximately $12.6 billion of securitized credit card receivables. Securitizations require credit enhancements in the form of cash, spread deposits, additional receivables and subordinated classes. The credit enhancement is principally based on the outstanding balances of the series issued by the WFN Trusts and the WFC Trust and by the performance of the credit card receivables in these credit card securitization trusts. At September 30, 2018, we had $7.5 billion of non-recourse borrowings of consolidated securitization entities, of which $1.5 billion is due within the next 12 months. See Note 10, “Debt,” of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our debt. At July 31, 2018, $280.3 million of this program expired unused. On July 26, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program to acquire up to $500.0 million of our outstanding common stock from August 1, 2018 through July 31, 2019. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we acquired a total of 0.9 million shares of our common stock for $201.7 million. As of September 30, 2018, we had $464.3 million remaining under the new stock repurchase program. On April 19, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.57 per share on our common stock, payable on June 19, 2018, to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 14, 2018, resulting in a dividend payment of $31.5 million on June 19, 2018. On July 19, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.57 per share on our common stock, payable on September 19, 2018, to stockholders of record at the close of business on August 14, 2018, resulting in a dividend payment of $31.2 million on September 19, 2018. Additionally, we paid $0.3 million in cash related to dividend equivalent rights for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. On October 18, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.57 per share on our common stock, payable on December 19, 2018, to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 14, 2018. See “Recently Adopted Accounting Standards” under Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” of the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the adoption of ASC 606 on January 1, 2018. Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Our primary market risks include interest rate risk, credit risk, and foreign currency exchange rate risk. There has been no material change from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 related to our exposure to market risk from interest rate risk, credit risk, and foreign currency exchange rate risk. Item 4. Controls and Procedures. Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information we are required to disclose in such reports is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Legal Proceedings. From time to time we are involved in various claims and lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of our business that we believe will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, including claims and lawsuits alleging breaches of our contractual obligations. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Other than as set forth below, there have been no material changes to the Risk Factors previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 or our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018. If we fail to identify suitable acquisitions, dispositions or new business opportunities, or to effectively integrate the businesses we acquire or disaggregate the businesses we divest, it could negatively affect our business. Historically, we have engaged in a significant number of acquisitions, and those acquisitions have contributed to our growth in revenue and profitability. We believe that acquisitions and the identification and pursuit of new business opportunities will be a key component of our continued growth strategy. However, we may not be able to locate and secure future acquisition candidates or to identify and implement new business opportunities on terms and conditions that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or successful new business opportunities, our growth could be impaired. Similarly, we may evaluate the potential disposition of assets or businesses that no longer complement our long-term strategic objectives. When a determination is made to sell assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty attaining buyers or effecting desired exit strategies in a timely manner or on acceptable terms and may be subject to market forces leading to a divestiture on less than optimal price or other terms. Furthermore, if the operations of an acquired or new business do not meet expectations, our profitability may decline and we may seek to restructure the acquired business or impair the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired or new business. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. At July 31, 2018, $280.3 million of this program expired unused. On July 26, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program to acquire up to $500.0 million of our outstanding common stock from August 1, 2018 through July 31, 2019. At September 30, 2018, we had acquired approximately 0.1 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate amount of $35.7 million under this repurchase program. Our authorization is subject to any restrictions pursuant to the terms of our credit agreements, senior note indentures, and applicable securities laws or otherwise. Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. Item 5. Other Information. Exhibits.