Employer Identification No. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company,” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. FINANCIAL INFORMATIONItem 1. 5Table of ContentsNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS1. However, in management’s opinion, the financial information reflects all adjustments, including those of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented. The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year. This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, comprehensive income and accumulated other comprehensive loss that are reported in these unaudited consolidated financial statements and accompanying disclosures. The Company evaluates its estimates on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors, including the current economic environment. Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, marketable securities, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes. In addition, significant judgment is required in determining whether a potential indicator of impairment of long-lived assets exists and in estimating future cash flows for any necessary impairment testing. Actual results could differ significantly from these estimates.The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30. Fiscal year 2018 consists of 52 weeks and ends on September 28, 2018. Fiscal year 2017 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on September 29, 2017. The third quarters and nine months ended for fiscal years 2018 and 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks and 39 weeks, respectively, and ended on June 29, 2018, and June 30, 2017, respectively. The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. As a result of adoption, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $23.6 million to the income tax provision for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards for the nine months ended June 29, 2018. The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $23.6 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018. Prior periods have not been adjusted. The Company has elected to account for forfeitures as they occur and will no longer estimate future forfeitures. The change in accounting for forfeitures was applied using a modified retrospective transition method and resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $1.9 million. Forfeitures in the future will now be recorded as a benefit in the period they are realized.In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. This ASU simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill and eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. The annual or interim goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and an impairment charge should be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. In addition, income tax effects from any tax deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit should be considered when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if applicable. The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application. The Company will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and currently expects to apply the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance. The Company has established a cross-functional team to assess the potential impact of the new revenue standard. The assessment process consists of reviewing the Company's current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to its revenue contracts and identifying appropriate changes to the business processes, systems and controls to support revenue recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard. The Company is continuing to evaluate the potential impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements. Based on its preliminary assessments, the Company does not expect the new guidance to have a material impact on the nature, amount, and timing of its revenue recognition. As the Company continues to assess the impact of the new guidance on its revenue contracts with its customers and finalizes its evaluation of any changes to its accounting policies, internal controls and footnote disclosures, the Company may identify additional areas of impact and may revise the results of its preliminary assessment. This ASU requires lessees to reflect most leases on their balance sheet as assets and obligations. The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The standard is to be applied under the modified retrospective method, with elective reliefs, which requires application of the new guidance for all periods presented. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. This ASU provides guidance on the presentation and classification of specific cash flow items to improve consistency within the statement of cash flows. The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December, 15, 2017, on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted. This ASU provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. The effective date for the standard is for interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted, including adoption in any interim period for which financial statements have not yet been issued. This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period. This ASU requires that credit losses of debt securities designated as available-for-sale be recorded through an allowance for credit losses. The ASU also limits the credit loss to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2021, with early adoption permitted. This ASU requires modified retrospective adoption, with prospective adoption for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date. The Company is currently evaluating the effect ASU 2016-13 will have on the consolidated financial statements. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and requires modified retrospective adoption, with prospective adoption for amendments related to equity securities without readily determinable fair values. This ASU expands the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. The effective date for the standard is for interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted, but no earlier than the Company's adoption date of Topic 606. The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized at the date of initial application. The Company is currently evaluating the effect ASU 2018-07 will have on the consolidated financial statements. Supplemental Cash Flow InformationAt June 29, 2018, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $28.0 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment. These amounts accrued for capital equipment purchases have been excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, and are expected to be paid in subsequent periods. Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. The description “Proceeds from employee stock purchase plan” has been reclassified from net cash provided by operating activities to net cash used in financing activities. 2. Further, for debt securities with unrealized losses, the Company did not have the intent to sell, nor was it more likely than not that the Company would be required to sell, such securities before recovery or maturity. 8Table of Contents3. FAIR VALUEThe Company groups its financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis in three levels, based on the markets in which the assets and liabilities are traded and the reliability of the assumptions used to determine fair value. Assets and Liabilities Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The Company measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis such as its financial instruments. There have been no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 assets or liabilities during the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018. Contingent consideration related to business combinations is recorded as a Level 3 liability because management uses significant judgments and unobservable inputs to determine the fair value. The Company reassesses the fair value of its contingent consideration liabilities on a quarterly basis and records any fair value adjustments to earnings in the period that they are determined. There were no indicators of impairment identified during the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018. 4. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS There were no changes to the carrying amount of goodwill during the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018.The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of its fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. The difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the 24.6% United States federal statutory rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, resulted primarily from a one-time charge of $238.0 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of the deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform, and an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, a decrease to tax expense of $12.0 million related to the release of tax reserves due to the lapse of the statute of limitations, and a benefit of $23.6 million related to windfall stock deductions. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law new tax legislation, which includes, among other things, a reduction of the United States corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax and the domestic production activities deduction, and expensing of certain capital investments. The new law makes fundamental changes to the taxation of multinational entities, including a shift from worldwide taxation with deferral to a hybrid territorial system, featuring a participation exemption regime, a minimum tax on low-taxed foreign earnings, and new measures to deter base erosion and promote export from the United States. In accordance with SAB 118, the Company has estimated the impact of the new legislation as it pertains to various items, including a one-time charge of $238.0 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings and a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of its deferred tax assets and liabilities, using the new federal statutory tax rate of 21%. The Company believes these amounts are reasonable estimates; however these amounts are provisional and are subject to change. Additional time is needed to gather the information necessary to finalize the computations of the impact of the new tax legislation. The changes included in the new tax legislation are broad and complex. The final transition impacts of the new tax legislation may differ from the above estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the new tax legislation, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the new tax legislation, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the new tax legislation, or any updates or changes to estimates the Company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts. SAB 118 allows for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the new tax legislation to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts. Accordingly, the Company revised its estimate of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings by decreasing the one-time charge from $257.8 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017, to $238.0 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, primarily due to a change in the interpretation of the definition of cash within the computation. The $19.8 million measurement period adjustment reduced the effective tax rate by 2.0% for the nine months ended June 29, 2018. The Company will continue to refine this estimate as new information becomes available and continues to anticipate finalizing and recording any adjustments by September 28, 2018. The GILTI provisions impose taxes on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. The Company expects to make an accounting policy election to account for GILTI as a component of tax expense in the period in which the Company is subject to the rules and therefore will not provide any deferred tax impacts of GILTI in its consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended June 29, 2018. The BEAT provisions eliminate the deduction of certain base-erosion payments made to related foreign corporations, and impose a minimum tax if greater than regular tax. These BEAT provisions are not effective for the Company until fiscal year 2019. The Company does not presently expect that it will be subject to the minimum tax imposed by the BEAT provisions. Other significant provisions of the Tax Reform Act that are not yet effective and for which it has not completed its analysis, but which may impact the Company's income taxes in future years, include the inclusion of performance-based compensation in determining the excessive compensation limitation and the benefit related to foreign derived intangible income.The reduction of the corporate tax rate to 21% is effective within fiscal year 2018. Therefore, the Company is subject to a blended fiscal year 2018 tax rate of approximately 24.6%, which is computed by using the number of days of the fiscal year during which the Company is subject to the old tax rate of 35% and the number of days the Company is subject to the newly enacted tax rate of 21%.Accrued taxes of $18.3 million and $20.3 million have been included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets as of June 29, 2018, and June 30, 2017, respectively. The $238.0 million deemed repatriation tax is payable over the next eight years, $19.0 million per year for each of the next five years, followed by payments of $35.8 million, $47.7 million, and $59.5 million in years six through eight, respectively. The Company has accrued $219.0 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long-term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of June 29, 2018. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Legal MattersFrom time to time, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be, instituted or asserted against the Company, including those pertaining to patent infringement, intellectual property, environmental hazards, product liability and warranty, safety and health, employment and contractual matters.The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to the Company’s business and have demanded and may in the future demand that the Company license their technology. The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some such lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company. Generally speaking, intellectual property disputes often have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against the Company, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, or results of operations. The Company does not believe there are any pending legal proceedings that are reasonably possible to result in a material loss. The Company is engaged in various legal actions in the normal course of business and, while there can be no assurances, the Company believes the outcome of all pending litigation involving the Company will not have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on its business.Guarantees and IndemnificationsThe Company has made no significant contractual guarantees for the benefit of third parties. However, the Company generally indemnifies its customers from third-party intellectual property infringement litigation claims related to its products and, on occasion, also provides other indemnities related to product sales. In connection with certain facility leases, the Company has indemnified its lessors for certain claims arising from the facility or the lease. 12Table of ContentsThe Company indemnifies its directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of the state of Delaware. The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite. The indemnities to customers in connection with product sales generally are subject to limits based upon the amount of the related product sales and in many cases are subject to geographic and other restrictions. In certain instances, the Company’s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make. The Company has not recorded any liability for these indemnities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and does not expect that such obligations will have a material adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations. 9. STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITYStock Repurchase ProgramOn January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 31, 2020, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. As of June 29, 2018, $647.9 million remained available under the existing stock repurchase authorization.Dividends On July 19, 2018, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had declared a cash dividend on its common stock of $0.38 per share, payable on August 28, 2018, to the Company’s stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 7, 2018. The shares have been valued utilizing a probability weighted series of Black-Scholes pricing models and could be issued after mid-2020. The shares will be marked to estimated fair value each reporting period through earnings. The amount recorded in the statement of operations within selling, general and administrative expense for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, is not material. 10. The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards that were outstanding during the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, and June 30, 2017, using the treasury stock method. Certain of the Company’s outstanding share-based awards, noted in the table above, were excluded because they were anti-dilutive, but they could become dilutive in the future.Item 2. Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “continue,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “seek,” “should,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions or variations or negatives of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements. Although forward-looking statements in this report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially and adversely from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the 2017 10-K, under the heading “Risk Factors” and in the other documents we have filed with the SEC in evaluating our forward-looking statements. We have no plans, and undertake no obligation, to revise or update our forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets. This increase in revenue was primarily driven by our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve, the increasing number of applications for the Internet of Things, and our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, industrial, medical and military. •Our ending cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance increased approximately 2.0% to $1,648.8 million as of June 29, 2018, from $1,616.8 million as of September 29, 2017. This increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was primarily the result of cash generated from operations of $1,053.0 million, partially offset by the repurchase of 5.1 million shares of common stock for $524.5 million, dividend payments of $175.2 million and capital expenditures of $310.0 million during the nine months ended June 29, 2018. We generally experience seasonal peaks during the second half of the calendar year, primarily as a result of increased worldwide production of consumer electronics in anticipation of increased holiday sales, whereas our second fiscal quarter is typically lower and in line with seasonal industry trends. We generated net revenue of $894.3 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, a decrease of $6.5 million or 0.7%, as compared with $900.8 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017. Net revenue increased by 7.2% or $192.8 million to $2,859.6 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with $2,666.8 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017. This increase in net revenue for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from smartphone customers and an increase in demand from customers within the Internet of Things, automotive, industrial, medical and military industries, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, offset by decreases in average selling prices. Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical of the semiconductor industry. As part of our normal course of business, we mitigate the gross margin impact of declining average selling prices with efforts to increase unit volumes, reduce material costs, improve manufacturing efficiencies, lower manufacturing costs of existing products and by introducing new and higher value-added products.The $2.0 million decrease in gross profit for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of lower average selling prices and lower unit volumes with a gross profit impact of $52.8 million. Gross profit margin increased to 50.5% of net revenue for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.The $104.2 million increase in gross profit for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix, lower per-unit materials and manufacturing costs and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $227.0 million. These positive impacts were partially offset by lower average selling prices with a gross profit impact of $122.8 million. Gross profit margin increased to 50.6% of net revenue for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017. Research and development expense increased as a percentage of net revenue, when compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, as a result of our increased investment in developing new technologies and products. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to increases in employee-related compensation and share-based compensation during the period. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 29, 2018, decreased as a percentage of net revenue, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, due to the aforementioned decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, decreased as a percentage of net revenue, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, due to the aforementioned increase in net revenue. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, was 7.8% and 36.0%, respectively, as compared with 19.7% and 19.8% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. The difference between our effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, of 36.0% and the federal statutory rate of 24.6% resulted primarily from a one-time charge of $238.0 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform, and an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, a decrease to tax expense of $12.0 million related to the release of tax reserves due to the lapse of statute of limitations and a benefit of $23.6 million related to windfall stock deductions. See Note 7 for a detailed discussion of the impact of the new U.S. tax legislation, including an adjustment made in the nine months ended June 29, 2018, to our provisional estimate related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings. During the nine months ended June 29, 2018, we generated $1,053.0 million of cash from operating activities, an increase of $14.3 million as compared with the $1,038.7 million generated during the nine months ended June 30, 2017. Cash used in investing activities was $809.2 million during the nine months ended June 29, 2018, as compared with $228.5 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2017. Purchases of marketable securities were $523.2 million and sales and maturities of marketable securities were $32.6 million during the nine months ended June 29, 2018. The cash used for capital expenditures was $310.0 million in the nine months ended June 29, 2018, primarily related to the purchase of manufacturing equipment to support the expansion of our assembly and test operations, filter production operations, and wafer fabrication facilities. During the nine months ended June 29, 2018, we also paid $8.6 million related to purchased intangibles. During the nine months ended June 29, 2018, we had net cash outflows from financing activities of $702.5 million, as compared with net cash outflows from financing activities of $450.0 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2017. The decrease resulted from $524.5 million used to repurchase 5.1 million shares of stock, $175.2 million in cash dividend payments, $47.5 million used to repurchase shares related to payroll tax withholdings on equity awards, $490.6 million in net purchases of marketable securities and $310.0 million in capital expenditures which was partially offset by $1,053.0 million in cash generated from operations. However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital and operating requirements. In addition, any future strategic investments and acquisitions may require additional cash and capital resources. If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash or capital to meet our needs on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected.Our invested cash balances primarily consist of highly liquid term deposits and money market funds where the underlying securities primarily consist of United States treasury obligations, United States agency obligations and repurchase agreements collateralized by United States government and agency obligations. We had $1,158.1 million of total cash and cash equivalents as of June 29, 2018, including $492.2 million held overseas. Item 3. 19Table of ContentsThe main objectives of our investment activities are liquidity and preservation of capital. Our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. Our marketable securities consist of short-term and long-term maturity periods between zero and two years. Credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our investments are diversified across several types of securities with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one investment. Based on our results of operations for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact on income before taxes.Given the low interest rate environment, the objectives of our investment activities, and the relatively low interest income generated from our cash and cash equivalents and other investments, we do not believe that investment or interest rate risks pose material exposures to our current business or results of operations. Foreign Exchange Rate RiskSubstantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results. A percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and exchange rate volatility could positively or negatively impact those operating costs. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. Given the relatively small number of customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers denominated in foreign currencies, we do not believe that foreign exchange volatility has a material impact on our current business or results of operations. However, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business or results of operations in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies. We may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. However, we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. Item 4. Controls and Procedures.Evaluation of disclosure controls and proceduresOur management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 29, 2018. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. Legal Proceedings. 20Table of ContentsFrom time to time, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be, instituted or asserted against the Company, including those pertaining to patent infringement, intellectual property, environmental hazards, product liability and warranty, safety and health, employment and contractual matters.The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to the Company’s business and have demanded and may in the future demand that the Company license their technology. The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some such lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company. Generally speaking, intellectual property disputes often have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against the Company, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, or results of operations. The Company does not believe there are any pending legal proceedings that are reasonably possible to result in a material loss. The Company is engaged in various legal actions in the normal course of business and, while there can be no assurances, the Company believes the outcome of all pending litigation involving the Company will not have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on its business.Item 1A. Risk Factors.In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in the 2017 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2017 10-K.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. The January 31, 2018, stock repurchase program replaces in its entirety the January 17, 2017, plan. On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement. The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in certain competition with the third party. Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares. 21Table of ContentsItem 6. Exhibits. SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.