See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. In management's opinion, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a
fair presentation of interim results. The results of operations reported for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for the entire fiscal year or any subsequent
interim period. The
year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all of the information and disclosures required by GAAP. These financial statements
should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017. Unless
otherwise indicated, references in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 are to our fiscal years ending September 28, 2018 and
ended September 29, 2017, respectively. This guidance supersedes ASC 605, Revenue
Recognition, and introduces a single, comprehensive, five-step revenue recognition model. ASC 606 also enhances disclosures related to revenue recognition. ASC 606, as amended,
is effective for us beginning in fiscal 2019. Significantly all our revenues are generated from the sale of products and construction related projects. Our review of these existing contracts, which is
substantially complete, affirms that product revenue will continue to be recognized at a point in time in a manner consistent with current practice. In addition, construction related projects, which
are accounted for primarily using the percentage-of-completion method, will continue to qualify for revenue recognition over time. In the quarter ended June 29, 2018, we continued the process
of updating policies, internal controls, financial statement disclosures, and systems to incorporate the impact of the new standard in our financial reporting processes. We intend to adopt the new
standard using the modified retrospective approach and have begun quantifying the impact of the cumulative effect of applying this new standard on existing, uncompleted contracts at the adoption date,
which will result in an adjustment to the opening
balance of accumulated earnings as of September 29, 2018. We do not expect that the cumulative impact of adoption will be material to our results of operations or financial position. See Note 10 for additional information regarding the Act. We elected to early adopt this update in the quarter ended March 30, 2018 and reclassify the stranded tax effects
resulting from the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate. The reclassification increased both accumulated other comprehensive loss and
accumulated earnings with no impact to total shareholders' equity. In
March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07, an update to ASC 715, Compensation–Retirement Benefits, which changes
the income statement presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs. The ASU requires that service costs be presented with other employee compensation costs within operating
income and that other cost components be presented outside of operating income. We elected to early adopt this update in the quarter ended December 29, 2017. The update was applied
retrospectively and did not have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 2. In connection with this program, during the nine months ended June 29, 2018, we recorded restructuring charges of $111 million. We expect to complete
significantly all restructuring actions commenced during the nine months ended June 29, 2018 by the end of fiscal 2020 and to incur total charges of approximately $130 million. Remaining
charges primarily relate to employee severance. In connection with this program, during the nine months ended June 29, 2018 and June 30, 2017, we recorded net restructuring charges of
$4 million and $119 million, respectively. We expect to complete all restructuring actions commenced during fiscal 2017 by the end of fiscal 2019 and anticipate that any additional
charges will be insignificant. We expect to incur
additional charges of approximately $15 million related to pre-fiscal 2017 actions with the remaining charges related to employee severance primarily in the Communications Solutions segment. We
reclassified $325 million of 2.375% senior notes due December 2018 from long-term debt to short-term debt on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet during the nine months
ended June 29, 2018. During
the nine months ended June 29, 2018, TEGSA entered into an uncommitted revolving credit facility under which it borrowed €100 million at a 0%
interest rate with repayment due at maturity in December 2018. As
of June 29, 2018, TEGSA had $271 million of commercial paper outstanding at a weighted-average interest rate of 2.33%. TEGSA had no commercial paper outstanding at
September 29, 2017. The
fair value of our debt, based on indicative valuations, was approximately $4,188 million and $4,622 million at June 29, 2018 and September 29, 2017,
respectively. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, based upon our experience, current information, and applicable
law, we do not expect that the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The ultimate
cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup
methods. As of June 29, 2018, we concluded that we would incur investigation and remediation costs at these sites in the reasonably possible range of $15 million to $43 million,
and we accrued $18 million as the probable loss, which was the best estimate within this range. We believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. We do not expect that these uncertainties will have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial position, or cash flows. At
June 29, 2018, we had outstanding letters of credit, letters of guarantee, and surety bonds of $283 million. We
generally record estimated product warranty costs when contract revenues are recognized under the percentage-of-completion method for construction related contracts; other warranty
reserves are not significant. The estimation is based primarily on historical experience and actual warranty claims. Amounts accrued for warranty claims were $46 million and $50 million
at June 29, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively. As a result of subsequent transactions, Tyco International and Covidien now operate as part of Johnson Controls International plc and
Medtronic plc, respectively. Certain shared U.S. state and non-U.S. income tax matters remain open. We do not expect these matters will have a material effect
on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. 8. Under the terms of these contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges, we make quarterly interest payments in euros at 3.50% per
annum and receive interest in U.S. dollars at a weighted-average rate of 5.33% per annum. Upon the maturities of these contracts in fiscal 2022, we will pay the notional value of the contracts
in euros and receive U.S. dollars from our counterparties. In connection with the cross-currency swap contracts, we are required to post cash collateral with our counterparties. At
June 29, 2018 and September 29, 2017, our cross-currency swap contracts were in a liability position of $107 million and $96 million, respectively, and
were recorded in other liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. At June 29, 2018 and September 29, 2017, collateral paid to our counterparties approximated the
derivative positions and was recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The aggregate notional value of these hedges was
$2,986 million and $3,110 million at June 29, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively. 9. During
the nine months ended June 29, 2018, we contributed $36 million to our non-U.S. pension plans. 10. The income tax expense for
the quarter ended June 29, 2018 included a $17 million income tax benefit resulting from lapses of statutes of limitations in the U.S. and certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. The income tax
expense for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 included a $14 million income tax benefit associated with pre-separation tax matters. We
recorded income tax expense of $789 million and $164 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively. The tax expense for
the nine months ended June 29, 2018 included $567 million of income tax expense related to the tax impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, a $61 million net income tax benefit
related to certain legal entity restructurings, and a $34 million income tax benefit resulting from lapses of statutes of limitations in the U.S. and certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. See "Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act" below for additional information. The tax expense for the nine months
ended June 30, 2017 included a $52 million income tax benefit associated with the tax impacts of certain intercompany transactions and the corresponding reduction in the valuation
allowance for U.S. tax loss carryforwards, a $24 million income tax benefit resulting from lapses of statutes of limitations in the U.S. and certain non-U.S. jurisdictions, and a
$14 million income tax benefit associated with pre-separation tax matters. We
record accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as part of income tax expense. As of June 29, 2018 and September 29, 2017, we had
$60 million of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, recorded primarily in income taxes. During the nine months ended
June 29, 2018, we recognized $2 million of income tax expense related to interest and penalties on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Although
it is difficult to predict the timing or results of our worldwide examinations, we estimate that approximately $30 million of unrecognized income tax benefits, excluding
the impact relating to accrued interest and penalties, could be resolved within the next twelve months. We
are not aware of any other matters that would result in significant changes to the amount of unrecognized income tax benefits reflected on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as
of June 29, 2018. While some of the new provisions of the Act will impact us in fiscal 2019 and beyond, the change in the tax rate was effective January 1,
2018. In the period of enactment, we were required to revalue our U.S. federal deferred tax assets and liabilities at
the new tax rate. Accordingly, during the quarter ended December 29, 2017, we recorded income tax expense of $567 million primarily in connection with the write-down of our U.S. federal
deferred tax asset for net operating loss and interest carryforwards to the lower tax rate. Included in the expense of $567 million was an income tax benefit of $34 million related to
the reduction in the existing valuation allowance recorded against certain U.S. federal tax credit carryforwards. The limitations on interest expense deductions contained in the Act are expected to
increase prospective taxable income and thereby allow the utilization of more tax credits in future years. As a Swiss corporation, the one-time repatriation tax imposed by the Act will not be
significant to us. The
Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, and in certain instances, lacks clarity and is subject to interpretation until additional IRS guidance is
issued. The ultimate impact of the Act may differ from our estimates due to changes in the interpretations and assumptions we made as well as any forthcoming regulatory guidance. One area requiring
guidance is a transition rule regarding limitations on interest expense deductions. The Act does not address the treatment of the carryforward of disallowed interest expense generated under the prior
law. Our interpretation is that the carryforward of interest should survive and will be deductible in future periods subject to the new interest limitations. Accordingly, during the quarter ended
December 29, 2017, we revalued our beginning deferred tax asset related to our interest carryforwards to $223 million to reflect the lower tax rate. It is possible additional regulatory
guidance could be issued contrary to this interpretation at which point we may be required to record a charge to income tax expense to revalue or eliminate the related deferred tax asset. On
April 2, 2018, the Treasury Department and the IRS issued Notice 2018-28 stating their intention to issue regulations consistent with our position related to the carryforward of the disallowed
interest expense. 11. In
March 2018, our shareholders approved a dividend payment to shareholders of $1.76 per share, payable in four equal quarterly installments beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2018
and ending in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. We paid the first installment of the dividend at a rate of $0.44 per share in the quarter ended June 29, 2018. Upon
shareholders' approval of a dividend payment, we record a liability with a corresponding charge to shareholders' equity. At June 29, 2018 and September 29, 2017, the
unpaid portion of the dividends recorded in accrued and other current liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets totaled $459 million and $281 million, respectively. 13. TEGSA is the obligor under our senior notes, commercial paper, and five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, TE
Connectivity Ltd. The following tables present condensed consolidating financial information for TE Connectivity Ltd., TEGSA, and all other subsidiaries that are not providing a
guarantee of debt but which represent assets of TEGSA, using the equity method of accounting. Cash flows are presented based upon the nature of the
distributions. The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that
reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to
those under the heading "Forward-Looking Information" and "Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors." The
following discussion includes organic net sales growth which is a non-GAAP financial measure. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure" for additional information regarding this measure. For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have
enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home. Foreign currency exchange rates positively impacted net sales by
$131 million and $481 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2017. On an organic basis, our net sales
increased 6.2% and 7.0% during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2017. •Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 9.2% and 11.3% during the
third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, due primarily to increased sales in the industrial equipment and the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end markets. •Communications Solutions—Our net sales decreased 4.7% and 2.1% in the
third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, due to sales declines in the subsea communications end market, partially offset by sales increases in the appliances and the data and
devices end markets. • Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,527 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. We expect our net sales to be between $14.58 billion and $14.68 billion in fiscal 2018 as compared to $13.1 billion in
fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2018, we expect global
automotive production growth of approximately 2%. We also expect continued growth in the commercial transportation and sensors end markets. •Industrial Solutions—In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we expect our net sales
to increase in all end markets. In fiscal 2018, we expect our net sales growth to be driven by strength in the industrial equipment, defense, and commercial aerospace markets. •Communications Solutions—We expect net sales declines in our subsea communications
end market to be partially offset by sales growth in the appliances and the data and devices end markets. We expect our net sales in the subsea communications end market in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2018 to be consistent with sales levels in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. We
expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.23 to $1.25 per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. For fiscal 2018, we expect diluted earnings per
share from continuing operations to be in the range of $3.79 to $3.81 per share. The outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on
net sales and earnings per share of approximately $49 million and $0.02 per share, respectively, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2017. The fiscal
2018 outlook reflects the positive impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $423 million and $0.19 per share, respectively, as compared to
fiscal 2017. The
above outlook is based on foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices that are consistent with current levels. We
are monitoring the current macroeconomic environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets we serve. We continue to closely manage our costs in line with
economic conditions. Additionally, we are managing our capital resources and monitoring capital availability to ensure that we have sufficient resources to fund future capital needs. See further
discussion in "Liquidity and Capital Resources." The increase in net sales resulted from organic
net sales growth of 6.2%, the positive impact of foreign currency translation of 3.9% due to the strengthening of certain foreign currencies, and sales contributions from acquisitions of 1.7%. Price
erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $55 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. In
the first nine months of fiscal 2018, net sales increased $1,332 million, or 13.8%, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017 as a result of organic net sales growth
of 7.0%, the positive impact of foreign currency translation of 4.9% due to the strengthening of certain foreign currencies, and sales contributions from acquisitions of 1.9%. Price erosion adversely
affected organic net sales by $148 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. See
further discussion of net sales below under "Segment Results." Net Sales by Geographic Region. Increases or
decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar, compared to other currencies, will directly affect our reported results as we translate those currencies into U.S. dollars at the end of each fiscal period. Approximately
60% of our net sales were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. The increases were due primarily to higher volume and the positive impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by the negative impact of price erosion. Gross margin as a percentage of net
sales decreased to 32.3% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 from 33.9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 and decreased to 33.1% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 from 34.3% in the same period
of fiscal 2017. Cost
of sales and gross margin are subject to variability in raw material prices which continue to fluctuate for many of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. We
expect to purchase approximately 200 million pounds of copper, 140,000 troy ounces of gold, and 2.8 million troy ounces of silver in fiscal 2018. Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $409 million in the third
quarter of fiscal
2018 as compared to $408 million in the same period of fiscal 2017. Increased selling expenses to support higher sales levels were offset by lower incentive compensation costs. In the first
nine months of fiscal 2018, selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $38 million from the same period in fiscal 2017. The increase resulted primarily from increased selling
expenses to support higher sales levels and incremental expenses attributable to recently acquired businesses, partially offset by lower incentive compensation costs and a gain on the sale of certain
assets. Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 10.9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 from 12.1% in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 and decreased
to 11.1% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 from 12.2% in the same period of fiscal 2017. Research, Development, and Engineering Expenses. In the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, research,
development, and engineering
expenses increased $13 million and $54 million, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2017 due to costs related to growth initiatives, primarily in the Transportation
Solutions segment. Restructuring and Other Charges, Net. We are committed to continuous productivity improvements and
consistently evaluate opportunities to simplify our global manufacturing footprint, migrate facilities to lower-cost regions, reduce fixed costs, and eliminate excess capacity. These initiatives are
designed to help us maintain our competitiveness in the industry, improve our operating leverage, and position us for future growth. During
fiscal 2018, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements primarily impacting the Industrial Solutions segment. During
fiscal 2017, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation related to recent acquisitions and structural improvements impacting all segments. In
connection with these initiatives, we incurred net restructuring charges of $120 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, of which $111 million related to
the fiscal 2018 restructuring program. Annualized cost savings related to the fiscal 2018 actions commenced during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 are expected to be approximately
$90 million and are expected to be realized by the end of fiscal 2020. Cost savings will be reflected primarily in cost of sales and selling, general, and administrative expenses. During fiscal
2018, we expect to incur net restructuring charges of approximately $150 million. We expect total spending, which will be funded with cash from operations, to be approximately
$130 million in fiscal 2018. See
Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding net restructuring and other charges. We do not expect a significant change in our effective tax rate on future
results of operations as a result of the Act. Our growth in the Americas region was driven by content growth in North
America and market growth in South America. In the EMEA region, our organic net sales increased due to market growth and electronification. Our growth in the Asia–Pacific region resulted
from market growth, share gains, and electronification. •Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales increased 21.9% in the third
quarter of fiscal 2018 with growth in all regions due primarily to strength in the heavy truck, construction, and agriculture markets. •Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 8.0% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018
due primarily to growth in the commercial transportation and industrial equipment markets. Our growth in the Americas region resulted from content growth in North
America and market growth in South America. Our growth in the EMEA region was driven by market growth, electronification, and new model launches. In the Asia–Pacific region, our growth was
attributable to market share gains and electronification. •Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales increased 26.4% in the first nine
months of fiscal 2018 with growth in all regions due primarily to strength in the heavy truck, construction, and agriculture markets. •Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 8.7% in the first nine months of fiscal
2018 primarily as a result of growth in the commercial transportation, industrial equipment, and automotive markets. Operating Income. •Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas—Our organic net sales increased 6.0% in the third
quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily as a result of growth in the defense and commercial aerospace markets. •Energy—Our organic net sales increased 2.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 due
to strength in the Americas region, partially offset by weakness in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions. In
the first nine months of fiscal 2018, net sales in the Industrial Solutions segment increased $289 million, or 11.3%, from the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due primarily to
organic net sales growth of 5.8% and the positive impact of foreign currency translation of 4.7%. •Energy—Our organic net sales decreased 1.6% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018
due to weakness in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, partially offset by strength in the Americas region. Operating Income. •Subsea communications—Our organic net sales decreased 32.1% in the third quarter of
fiscal 2018 primarily as a result of production delays on a program. •Appliances—Our organic net sales increased 8.8% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018
due to growth in all regions and market share gains. Net
sales in the Communications Solutions segment decreased $40 million, or 2.1%, in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2017 due to
organic net sales declines of 3.9%, partially offset by the positive impact of foreign currency translation of 1.8%. •Subsea communications—Our organic net sales decreased 27.8% in the first nine
months of fiscal 2018 due primarily to production delays on a program. •Appliances—Our organic net sales increased 14.5% in the first nine months of fiscal
2018 as a result of growth in all regions and market share gains. Operating Income. We believe that cash generated from operations
and, to the extent necessary, these other sources of potential funding will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital needs for the foreseeable future, including the payment of $325 million
of 2.375% senior notes and €100 million borrowed under the uncommitted revolving credit facility, both of which are due in December 2018. We may use excess cash to purchase a
portion of our common shares pursuant to our authorized share repurchase program, to acquire strategic businesses or product lines, to pay dividends on our common shares, or to reduce our outstanding
debt, including through the possible repurchase of our debt in accordance with applicable law. The cost or availability of future funding may be impacted by financial market conditions. We will
continue to monitor financial markets and respond as necessary to changing conditions. The increase resulted primarily from higher pre-tax income levels, partially offset by an increase in
employee-compensation related payments. The
amount of income taxes paid, net of refunds, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 was $317 million and $256 million, respectively. We do not expect a
significant change in our income tax payments as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. We expect
fiscal 2018 capital spending levels to be approximately 6% of net sales. We believe our capital funding levels are adequate to support new programs, and we continue to invest in our manufacturing
infrastructure to further enhance productivity and manufacturing capabilities. See
Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt. During
the first nine months of fiscal 2018, TEGSA entered into an uncommitted revolving credit facility under which it borrowed €100 million at a 0% interest rate
with repayment due at maturity in December 2018. TEGSA had no
borrowings under the Credit Facility at June 29, 2018 or September 29, 2017. Borrowings under our commercial paper program are backed by the Credit Facility and reduce the availability
of funds from the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility and our other debt agreements contain other customary covenants. None of our covenants are presently considered restrictive to our operations. As of June 29,
2018, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants and believe that we will continue to be in compliance with our existing covenants for the foreseeable future. In
addition to the Credit Facility, TEGSA is the borrower under our senior notes and commercial paper. TEGSA's payment obligations under its senior notes, commercial paper, and Credit
Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, TE Connectivity Ltd. In
March 2018, our shareholders approved a dividend payment to shareholders of $1.76 per share, payable in four equal quarterly installments of $0.44 per share beginning in the third
quarter of fiscal 2018 and ending in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. Payments
of common share dividends to shareholders were $435 million and $405 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. During
the first nine months of fiscal 2018, our board of directors authorized an increase of $1.5 billion in the share repurchase program. We repurchased approximately
6 million of our common shares for $612 million and approximately 5 million of our common shares for $386 million under our share repurchase program during the first nine
months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. At June 29, 2018, we had $1.4 billion of availability remaining under our share repurchase authorization. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, based upon our experience, current information, and applicable
law, we do not expect that the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from fiscal 2018 through the completion of such transactions. We do not expect that these uncertainties will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. At
June 29, 2018, we had outstanding letters of credit, letters of guarantee, and surety bonds of $283 million. See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding the Tax Sharing Agreement. Our
accounting policies for revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes, and pension liabilities are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions
made by management. For additional information regarding these policies and the underlying accounting assumptions and estimates used in these policies, refer to the Consolidated Financial Statements
and accompanying notes contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017. There were no significant changes to this information during the first
nine months of fiscal 2018. Organic net sales growth is a useful measure of our performance because it excludes items that are not completely
under management's control, such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and items that do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture
activity. Management uses organic net sales growth to monitor and evaluate performance. Also,
management uses organic net sales growth together with GAAP financial measures in its decision-making processes related to the operations of our reportable segments and our overall company. It is also
a significant component in our incentive compensation plans. We believe that investors benefit from having access to the same financial measures that management uses in evaluating operations. The
tables presented in "Results of Operations" and "Segment Results" provide reconciliations of organic net sales growth to net sales growth calculated in accordance with GAAP. Organic
net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered a replacement for results in accordance with GAAP. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be
comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. The primary limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or
decrease our reported results. This limitation is best addressed by using organic net sales growth in combination with net sales growth in order to better understand the amounts, character, and impact
of any increase or decrease in reported amounts. Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Forward-looking statements
include, among others, the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities,
potential operating performance improvements, acquisitions, divestitures, the effects of competition, and the effects of future legislation or regulations. Forward-looking statements include all
statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "believe," "expect," "plan," "intend," "anticipate," "estimate," "predict,"
"potential," "continue," "may," "should," or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. Forward-looking
statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Investors should
not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we file this report except as required by law. The
following and other risks, which are described in greater detail in "Part I. Item 1A. There
may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 3. For further discussion
of our exposures to market risk, refer to "Part II. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended September 29, 2017. ITEM 4. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of June 29, 2018. Refer to "Part I. Item 3. Legal Proceedings" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017 for additional
information regarding legal proceedings. ITEM 1A. Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, other than as set forth in "Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended March 30, 2018. The risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, in addition to other
information in this report, could materially affect our business operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently
believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. ITEM 2. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date.