See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. In management's opinion, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring
adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of interim results. The results of operations reported for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for the entire
fiscal year or any subsequent interim period. The
year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all of the information and disclosures required by GAAP. These financial statements
should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017. Unless
otherwise indicated, references in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 are to our fiscal years ending September 28,
2018 and ended September 29, 2017, respectively. ASC 606 also enhances disclosures related to
revenue recognition. ASC 606, as amended, is effective for us beginning in fiscal 2019, and we intend to adopt the new standard using the modified retrospective approach applied to
contracts that are not completed as of that date. We are continuing to assess the impact of adopting ASC 606. Based on the ongoing evaluation of our current contracts and revenue streams, we do
not expect that adoption will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. We are in the process of identifying necessary changes to accounting policies, processes,
financial statement disclosures, internal controls, and systems to enable compliance with this new standard. We believe we are following an appropriate timeline to allow for the proper recognition,
reporting, and disclosure of revenue upon adoption of ASC 606 at the beginning of fiscal 2019. See Note 10 for additional information regarding the Act. We elected to early adopt this update in the quarter ended March 30, 2018 and reclassify the
stranded tax effects resulting from the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate. This change in accounting principle resulted in a reclassification of $38 million, primarily
associated with our pension plans, during the period of adoption. The reclassification increased both accumulated other comprehensive loss and accumulated earnings with no impact to total
shareholders' equity. 2017-07, an update to ASC 715, Compensation—Retirement Benefits, which
changes the income statement presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs. The ASU requires that service costs be presented with other employee compensation costs within
operating income and that other cost components be presented outside of operating income. We elected to early adopt this update in the quarter ended December 29, 2017. The update was applied
retrospectively and did not have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 2. In connection with this program, during the six months ended March 30, 2018, we recorded restructuring charges of $36 million. We expect to
complete significantly all restructuring actions commenced during the six months ended March 30, 2018 by the end of fiscal 2019 and to incur total charges of approximately $40 million. In connection with this program, during the six months ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017, we recorded net restructuring charges of
$3 million and $100 million, respectively. We expect to complete all restructuring actions commenced during fiscal 2017 by the end of fiscal 2019 and anticipate that any
additional charges will be insignificant. We expect to incur additional charges of approximately $15 million related to pre-fiscal 2017
actions with the remaining charges related to employee severance primarily in the Communications Solutions segment. We
reclassified $325 million of 2.375% senior notes due December 2018 from long-term debt to short-term debt on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet during the six months
ended March 30, 2018. During
the six months ended March 30, 2018, TEGSA entered into an uncommitted revolving credit facility under which it borrowed €100 million at a 0%
interest rate with repayment due at maturity in December 2018. As
of March 30, 2018, TEGSA had $225 million of commercial paper outstanding at a weighted-average interest rate of 2.26%. TEGSA had no commercial paper outstanding at
September 29, 2017. The
fair value of our debt, based on indicative valuations, was approximately $4,223 million and $4,622 million at March 30, 2018 and September 29, 2017,
respectively. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, based upon our experience, current information, and applicable
law, we do not expect that the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The ultimate
cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup
methods. As of March 30, 2018, we concluded that it was probable that we would incur investigation and remediation costs at these sites in the range of $15 million to $45 million,
and we accrued $19 million which was the best estimate within this range. We believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations, financial position, or cash flows. We do not expect that these uncertainties will have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial position, or cash flows. At
March 30, 2018, we had outstanding letters of credit, letters of guarantee, and surety bonds of $285 million. We
generally record estimated product warranty costs when contract revenues are recognized under the percentage-of-completion method for construction related contracts; other warranty
reserves are not significant. The estimation is based primarily on historical experience and actual warranty claims. Amounts accrued for warranty claims were $46 million and $50 million
at March 30, 2018 and September 29, 2017, respectively. Certain shared U.S. state and non-U.S. income tax matters remain open. We do not expect these matters will have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position,
or cash flows. 8. Under the terms of these contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges, we make quarterly interest payments in euros at
3.50% per annum and receive interest in U.S. dollars at a weighted-average rate of 5.33% per annum. Upon the maturities of these contracts in fiscal 2022, we will pay the principal amount of
the loans in euros and receive U.S. dollars from our counterparties. In connection with the cross-currency swaps, we are required to post cash collateral with our counterparties. At
March 30, 2018 and September 29, 2017, our cross-currency swap contracts were in a liability position of $178 million and $96 million, respectively, and
were recorded in other liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. At March 30, 2018 and September 29, 2017, collateral paid to our counterparties approximated the
derivative positions and was recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. We
hedge our net investment in certain foreign operations using intercompany non-derivative financial instruments denominated in the same currencies. 9. 10. The income tax expense
for the quarter ended March 30, 2018 included a $17 million income tax benefit resulting from lapses of statutes of limitations in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. The income tax expense
for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 included a $24 million income tax benefit resulting from lapses of statutes of limitations in the U.S. and certain non-U.S. jurisdictions, and a
$22 million income tax benefit associated with the tax impacts of certain intercompany transactions. We
recorded income tax expense of $708 million and $93 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively. The tax expense for
the six months ended March 30, 2018 included $567 million of income tax expense related to the tax impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and a $61 million net income tax benefit
related to certain legal entity restructurings. See "Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act" below for additional information. The tax expense for the six months ended March 31, 2017 included a $52 million income tax benefit associated with the tax impacts of certain
intercompany transactions and the corresponding reduction in the valuation allowance for U.S. tax loss carryforwards, as well as a $24 million income tax benefit resulting from lapses of
statutes of limitations in the U.S. and certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. We
record accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as part of income tax expense. As of March 30, 2018 and September 29, 2017, we had
$59 million and $60 million, respectively, of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, recorded primarily in income
taxes. During the six months ended March 30, 2018, we recognized $1 million of income tax benefits related to interest and penalties on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of
Operations. Although
it is difficult to predict the timing or results of our worldwide examinations, we estimate that approximately $30 million of unrecognized income tax benefits, excluding
the impact relating to accrued interest and penalties, could be resolved within the next twelve months. We
are not aware of any other matters that would result in significant changes to the amount of unrecognized income tax benefits reflected on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as
of March 30, 2018. The Act includes numerous
significant changes to existing tax law, including a permanent reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, further limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and
certain executive compensation, repeal of the corporate Alternative Minimum Tax, and imposition of a territorial tax system with a one-time repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign
subsidiaries. While some of the new provisions of the Act will impact us in fiscal 2019 and beyond, the change in the tax rate was effective January 1, 2018. Accordingly, during the quarter ended December 29, 2017, we recorded
income tax expense of $567 million primarily in connection with the write-down of our U.S. federal deferred tax asset for net operating loss and interest carryforwards to the lower tax rate. Included in the expense of $567 million was an income tax benefit of $34 million related to the reduction in the existing valuation allowance recorded against certain U.S. federal tax
credit carryforwards. The limitations on interest expense deductions contained in the Act are expected to increase prospective taxable income and thereby allow the utilization of more tax credits in
future years. As a Swiss corporation, the one-time repatriation tax imposed by the Act will not be significant to us. The
Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, and in certain instances, lacks clarity and is subject to interpretation until additional IRS guidance is
issued. The ultimate impact of the Act may differ from our estimates due to changes in the interpretations and assumptions we made as well as any forthcoming regulatory guidance. One area requiring
guidance is a transition rule regarding limitations on interest expense deductions. The Act does not address the treatment of the carryforward of disallowed interest expense generated under the prior
law. Our interpretation is that the carryforward of interest should survive and will be deductible in future periods subject to the new interest limitations. Accordingly, during the quarter ended
December 29, 2017, we revalued our beginning deferred tax asset related to our interest carryforwards to $223 million to reflect the lower tax rate. It is possible additional regulatory
guidance could be issued contrary to this interpretation at which point we may be required to record a charge to income tax expense to revalue or eliminate the related deferred tax asset. On
April 2, 2018, the Treasury Department and the IRS issued Notice 2018-28 stating their intention to issue regulations consistent with our position related to the carryforward of the
disallowed interest expense. 11. Upon
shareholders' approval of a dividend payment, we record a liability with a corresponding charge to shareholders' equity. At March 30, 2018 and September 29, 2017, the
unpaid portion of the dividends recorded in accrued and other current liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets totaled $617 million and $281 million, respectively. 13. TEGSA is the obligor under our senior notes, commercial paper, and five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, TE
Connectivity Ltd. The following tables present condensed consolidating financial information for TE Connectivity Ltd., TEGSA, and all other subsidiaries that are not providing a
guarantee of debt but which represent assets of TEGSA, using the equity method of accounting. Cash flows are presented based upon the nature of the
distributions. The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that
reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to
those under the heading "Forward-Looking Information" and "Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors." The
following discussion includes organic net sales growth which is a non-GAAP financial measure. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure" for additional information regarding this measure. For more than 75 years, our connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, have
enabled advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home. Foreign currency exchange rates positively impacted net sales by
$235 million and $350 million in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2017. On an organic basis,
our net sales increased 6.9% and 7.4% during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2017. •Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 14.0% and 12.5% during
the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, respectively, due primarily to increased sales in the industrial equipment end market. •Communications Solutions—Our net sales increased 3.2% in the second
quarter of fiscal 2018 and decreased 0.6% in the first six months of fiscal 2018 with sales increases in the appliances and the data and devices end markets and sales declines in the
subsea communications end market. • Net cash provided by operating activities was $727 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018. These increases are due primarily to sales growth in the Transportation
Solutions and Industrial Solutions segments. We expect global automotive production growth of approximately 2% in fiscal
2018. We also expect continued growth in the commercial transportation and sensors end markets. •Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales to increase in the industrial
equipment end market due primarily to continued strength in factory automation and controls applications. Also, we expect net sales growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be
driven by growth in the defense and commercial aerospace markets. •Communications Solutions—We expect our net sales growth in the appliances and the
data and devices end markets to be more than offset by sales declines in the subsea communications end market. We expect our net sales in the subsea communications end market to be in the range of
$700 million to $750 million in fiscal 2018. We
expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.13 to $1.15 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. For fiscal 2018, we expect diluted
earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $3.70 to $3.76 per share. This outlook reflects the positive impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per
share of approximately $120 million and $0.05 per share, respectively, in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2017 and approximately
$500 million and $0.20 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017. The
above outlook is based on foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices that are consistent with current levels. We
are monitoring the current macroeconomic environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets we serve. We continue to closely manage our costs in line with
economic conditions. Additionally, we are managing our capital resources and monitoring capital availability to ensure that we have sufficient resources to fund future capital needs. See further
discussion in "Liquidity and Capital Resources." The increase in net sales resulted
from the positive impact of foreign currency translation of 7.3% due to the strengthening of certain foreign currencies, organic net sales growth of 6.9%, and sales contributions from acquisitions of
1.9%. Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $49 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. In
the first six months of fiscal 2018, net sales increased $935 million, or 14.9%, as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2017 as a result of organic net
sales growth of 7.4%, the positive impact of foreign currency translation of 5.5% due to the strengthening of certain foreign currencies, and sales
contributions from acquisitions of 2.0%. Price erosion adversely affected organic net sales by $93 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018. See
further discussion of net sales below under "Segment Results." Net Sales by Geographic Region. Increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar, compared to
other currencies, will directly affect our reported results as we translate those currencies into U.S. dollars at the end of each fiscal period. Approximately
59% of our net sales were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the first six months of fiscal 2018. The increases were due primarily to higher volume, the positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and lower material costs, partially offset by the negative
impact of price erosion and declines in our Subsea Communications business related to production delays. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased to 33.2% in the second quarter of fiscal
2018 from 34.4% in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and decreased to 33.5% in the first six months of fiscal 2018 from 34.6% in the same period of fiscal 2017. Cost
of sales and gross margin are subject to variability in raw material prices which continue to fluctuate for many of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. We
expect to purchase approximately 200 million pounds of copper, 150,000 troy ounces of gold, and 2.8 million troy ounces of silver in fiscal 2018. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $21 million and
$37 million in
the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, respectively, from the same periods in fiscal 2017. The increases resulted primarily from increased selling expenses to support
higher sales levels. Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 11.4% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 from 12.6% in the second quarter of
fiscal 2017 and decreased to 11.2% in the first six months of fiscal 2018 from 12.3% in the same period of fiscal 2017. Research, Development, and Engineering Expenses. In the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, research,
development, and
engineering expenses increased $21 million and $41 million, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2017 due to costs related to growth initiatives, primarily in
the Transportation Solutions segment. Restructuring and Other Charges, Net. We are committed to continuous productivity improvements and consistently evaluate
opportunities to simplify
our global manufacturing footprint, migrate facilities to lower-cost regions, reduce fixed costs, and eliminate excess capacity. These initiatives are designed to help us maintain our competitiveness
in the industry, improve our operating leverage, and position us for future growth. During
fiscal 2018, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements primarily impacting the Industrial Solutions segment. During fiscal 2017, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation related to recent acquisitions and structural improvements impacting all segments. In
connection with these initiatives, we incurred net restructuring charges of $45 million during the first six months of fiscal 2018, of which $36 million related
to the fiscal 2018 restructuring program. Annualized cost savings related to the fiscal 2018 actions commenced during the first six months of fiscal 2018 are expected to be
approximately $30 million and are expected to be realized by the end of fiscal 2019. Cost savings will be reflected primarily in cost of sales and selling, general, and administrative
expenses. During fiscal 2018, we expect to incur net restructuring charges of approximately $150 million. We expect total spending, which will be funded with cash from operations, to be
approximately $130 million in fiscal 2018. See
Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding net restructuring and other charges. We do not expect a significant change in our effective tax
rate on future results of operations as a result of the Act. Our growth in the Americas region was driven by content
growth and market share gains in North America and market growth in South America. In the EMEA region, our organic net sales increased due to market growth, electronification, and new model launches. Our growth in the Asia–Pacific region resulted from market share gains and electronification. •Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales increased 24.4% in the second
quarter of fiscal 2018 with growth in all regions, primarily as a result of strength in the heavy truck and construction markets. •Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 7.6% in the second quarter of
fiscal 2018 due primarily to growth in the commercial transportation and automotive markets. Our growth in the Americas region resulted from content
growth and market share gains in North America and market growth in South America. Our growth in the EMEA region was driven by market growth, electronification, and new model launches. In the
Asia–Pacific region, our growth was attributable to market share gains and electronification. •Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales increased 28.9% in the first six
months of fiscal 2018 with strength in all regions, due primarily to growth in the heavy truck and construction markets. •Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 9.0% in the first six months of
fiscal 2018 primarily as a result of growth in the commercial transportation, industrial equipment, and automotive markets. Operating Income. •Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas—Our organic net sales increased 5.1% in the second
quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily as a result of growth in the commercial aerospace and defense markets. •Energy—Our organic net sales decreased 1.2% in the second quarter of
fiscal 2018 due to weakness in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, partially offset by strength in the Americas region. •Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas—Our organic net sales increased 1.6% in the first
six months of fiscal 2018 due primarily to growth in the oil and gas market and the defense market. •Energy—Our organic net sales decreased 3.6% in the first six months of
fiscal 2018 due primarily to weakness in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions. Operating Income. •Subsea communications—Our organic net sales decreased 17.2% in the second quarter
of fiscal 2018 primarily as a result of production delays on a program. •Appliances—Our organic net sales increased 14.4% in the second quarter of
fiscal 2018 due to market share gains and growth in all regions. Net
sales in the Communications Solutions segment decreased $7 million, or 0.6%, in the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the same period of fiscal 2017
due to organic net sales declines of 2.5%, partially offset by the positive impact of foreign currency translation of 1.9%. •Appliances—Our organic net sales increased 17.9% in the first six months of
fiscal 2018 as a result of market share gains and growth in all regions. Operating Income. We believe that cash generated from operations
and, to the extent necessary, these other sources of potential funding will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital needs for the foreseeable future, including the payment of $325 million
of 2.375% senior notes and €100 million borrowed under the uncommitted revolving credit facility, both of which are due in December 2018. We
may use excess cash to purchase a portion of our common shares pursuant to our authorized share repurchase program, to acquire strategic businesses or product lines, to pay dividends on our common
shares, or to reduce our outstanding debt, including through the possible repurchase of our debt in accordance with applicable law. The cost or availability of future funding may be impacted by
financial market conditions. We will continue to monitor financial markets and respond as necessary to changing conditions. The decrease resulted primarily from an increase in employee-compensation related payments and the unfavorable effects of
changes in accounts receivable and inventory levels, partially offset by higher pre-tax income levels. We do
not expect a significant change in our income tax payments as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. We expect fiscal 2018 capital spending levels to be approximately 6% of net sales. We believe our capital funding levels are adequate to support new programs, and we continue to invest
in our manufacturing infrastructure to further enhance productivity and manufacturing capabilities. See
Note 6 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt. During
the first six months of fiscal 2018, TEGSA entered into an uncommitted revolving credit facility under which it borrowed €100 million at a 0%
interest rate with repayment due at maturity in December 2018. TEGSA
had no borrowings under the Credit Facility at March 30, 2018 or September 29, 2017. Borrowings under our commercial paper program are backed by the Credit Facility and reduce the
availability of funds from the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility and our other debt agreements contain other customary covenants. None of our covenants are presently considered restrictive to our operations. As of March 30,
2018, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants and believe that we will continue to be in compliance with our existing covenants for the foreseeable future. In
addition to the Credit Facility, TEGSA is the borrower under our senior notes and commercial paper. In
March 2018, our shareholders approved a dividend payment to shareholders of $1.76 per share, payable in four equal quarterly installments of $0.44 per share beginning in the
third quarter of fiscal 2018 and ending in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. During
the first six months of fiscal 2018, our board of directors authorized an increase of $1.5 billion in the share repurchase program. We repurchased approximately
4 million of our common shares for $383 million and approximately 3 million of our common shares for $205 million under our share repurchase program during the first six
months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. At March 30, 2018, we had $1.6 billion of availability remaining under our share repurchase authorization. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, based upon our experience, current information, and applicable
law, we do not expect that the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from fiscal 2018 through the completion of such transactions. The guarantees would be triggered in the event of
nonperformance, and the potential exposure for nonperformance under the guarantees would not have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. We do not expect that these uncertainties will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. At
March 30, 2018, we had outstanding letters of credit, letters of guarantee, and surety bonds of $285 million. See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding the Tax Sharing Agreement. Our
accounting policies for revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes, and pension liabilities are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions
made by management. For additional information regarding these policies and the underlying accounting assumptions and estimates used in these policies, refer to the Consolidated Financial Statements
and accompanying notes contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017. There were no significant changes to this information during the first
six months of fiscal 2018. Organic net sales growth is a useful measure of our performance because it excludes items that are not completely
under management's control, such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and items that do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture
activity. Organic
net sales growth provides useful information about our results and the trends of our business. Management uses organic net sales growth to monitor and evaluate performance. Also,
management uses organic net sales growth together with GAAP financial measures in its decision-making processes related to the operations of our reportable segments and our overall company. It is also
a significant component in our incentive compensation plans. We believe that investors benefit from having access to the same financial measures that management uses in evaluating operations. The
tables presented in "Results of Operations" and "Segment Results" provide reconciliations of organic net sales growth to net sales growth calculated in accordance with GAAP. Organic
net sales growth is a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered a replacement for results in accordance with GAAP. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be
comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. The primary limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or
decrease our reported results. This limitation is best addressed by using organic net sales growth in combination with net sales growth in order to better understand the amounts, character, and impact
of any increase or decrease in reported amounts. Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. Forward-looking
statements include, among others, the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth
opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, acquisitions, divestitures, the effects of competition, and the effects of future legislation or regulations. Forward-looking statements
include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "believe," "expect," "plan," "intend," "anticipate," "estimate,"
"predict," "potential," "continue," "may," "should," or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. Forward-looking
statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Investors should
not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we file this report except as required by law. Item 1A. There
may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 3. For further discussion
of our exposures to market risk, refer to "Part II. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended September 29, 2017. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of March 30, 2018. Refer to "Part I. Item 3. Legal Proceedings" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017 for additional
information regarding legal proceedings. ITEM 1A. Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017 except as described below. The risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, in addition to other
information set forth below and in this report, could materially affect our business operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that
we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Changes in United States federal tax laws could result in adverse consequences to United States persons
treated as owning 10% or more of our shares. A U.S. person that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes
as owning, directly, indirectly, or constructively, 10% or more of our shares may be required to annually report and include in its U.S. taxable income its pro rata share of certain types of income
earned by our subsidiaries that are treated as CFCs, whether or not we make any distributions to such U.S. shareholder. A U.S. person that owns 10% or more of our shares should consult its own tax
advisers regarding any potential implications to it of these changes in U.S. federal income tax law. The risk of U.S. federal income tax reporting and compliance obligations with respect to our
subsidiaries that now are treated as CFCs may deter our current shareholders from increasing their investment in us, and others from investing in us, which could impact the demand for, and value of,
our shares. ITEM 2. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date. ITEM 6.