P.O. VisaNet also offers fraud protection for account holders and assured payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for account holders on Visa products. In most cases, account holder and merchant relationships belong to, and are managed by, Visa's financial institution clients. Consolidation and basis of presentation. The Company’s investments in VIEs have not been material to its consolidated financial statements as of and for the periods presented. Reference should be made to the Visa Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2017 for additional disclosures, including a summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies.In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented.Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements. The ASU replaces existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP. Subsequently, the FASB also issued a series of amendments to the new revenue standard. The Company will adopt the standard effective October 1, 2018, and expects to adopt the standard using the modified retrospective transition method. The Company expects that the new standard will primarily impact recognition timing for certain fixed incentives and price discounts provided to clients, and the classification of certain client incentives between contra revenues and operating expenses. The impact of the new standard to future financial results is unknowable as it is not possible to estimate the impact to the recognition of new customer contracts which may be executed in future periods. The Company has completed an assessment of its existing customer contracts through March 31, 2018. Application of the new standard to consolidated financial statements for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 would not have resulted in a material impact. The Company will continue to assess the impact of the new standard as new customer contracts are executed going forward.In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-05, which clarifies that a change in the counterparty to a derivative instrument that has been designated as the hedging instrument under Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, does not, in and of itself, require dedesignation of that hedging relationship provided that all other hedge accounting criteria continue to be met. The Company adopted the standard effective October 1, 2017. The Company adopted the standard effective October 1, 2017. The adoption did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-07, which eliminates the requirement that an entity retroactively adopt the equity method of accounting if an investment qualifies for use of the equity method as a result of an increase in the level of ownership or degree of influence. The equity method investor is required to add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment becomes qualified for equity method accounting. The Company adopted the standard effective October 1, 2017. The Company will adopt the standard effective October 1, 2019. The adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05 to insert the SEC's interpretive guidance from Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 into the income tax accounting codification under U.S. GAAP. The ASU permits companies to use provisional amounts for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act during a one-year measurement period. The provisional accounting impacts for the Company may change in future reporting periods until the accounting analysis is finalized, which will occur no later than the first quarter of fiscal 2019.Note 2—U.S. and Europe Retrospective Responsibility Plans U.S. Retrospective Responsibility PlanUnder the terms of the U.S. retrospective responsibility plan, the Company maintains an escrow account from which settlements of, or judgments in, certain litigation referred to as the "U.S. covered litigation" are paid. The escrow funds are held in money market investments along with interest income earned, less applicable taxes and are classified as restricted cash on the consolidated balance sheets. The balance of the escrow account was $0.9 billion at March 31, 2018 and $1.0 billion at September 30, 2017. The Company paid $150 million from the litigation escrow account during the six months ended March 31, 2018. See Note 11—Legal Matters.The accrual related to the U.S. covered litigation could be either higher or lower than the litigation escrow account balance. The Company did not record an additional accrual for the U.S. covered litigation during the six months ended March 31, 2018. VE territory covered losses are recorded in "right to recover for covered losses" within equity before the corresponding adjustment to the applicable conversion rate is effected. Adjustments to the conversion rate may be executed once in any six-month period unless a single, individual loss greater than €20 million is incurred, in which case, the six-month limitation does not apply. When the adjustment to the conversion rate is made, the amount previously recorded in "right to recover for covered losses" as contra-equity is then recorded against the book value of the preferred stock within stockholders' equity. VE territory covered losses incurred reflect settlements with merchants and additional legal costs. See Note 11—Legal Matters. As-converted and book values are based on unrounded numbers. Money market funds, publicly-traded equity securities and U.S. Treasury securities are classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy, as fair value is based on quoted prices in active markets.Level 2 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The fair value of U.S. government-sponsored debt securities, as provided by third-party pricing vendors, is based on quoted prices in active markets for similar, not identical, assets. The pricing data obtained from outside sources is reviewed internally for reasonableness, compared against benchmark quotes from independent pricing sources, then confirmed or revised accordingly. Foreign exchange derivative instruments are valued using inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. There were no substantive changes to the valuation techniques and related inputs used to measure fair value during the six months ended March 31, 2018.Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring BasisNon-marketable equity investments and investments accounted for under the equity method. These investments are classified as Level 3 due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity, and the fact that inputs used to measure fair value are unobservable and require management's judgment. When certain events or circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, the Company revalues the investments using various assumptions, including the financial metrics and ratios of comparable public companies. There were no significant impairments during the six months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017. Long-lived assets such as goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, finite-lived intangible assets, and property, equipment and technology are considered non-financial assets. The Company does not have any non-financial liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. Finite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of customer relationships, trade names and reseller relationships, all of which were obtained through acquisitions.If the Company were required to perform a quantitative assessment for impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, the fair values would generally be estimated using an income approach. As the assumptions employed to measure these assets on a non-recurring basis are based on management's judgment using internal and external data, these fair value determinations are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. The Company completed its annual impairment review of its indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill as of February 1, 2018, and concluded that there was no impairment. No recent events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment existed at March 31, 2018.Other Fair Value DisclosuresLong-term debt. Debt instruments are measured at amortized cost on the Company's unaudited consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2018. The fair value of the debt instruments, as provided by third-party pricing vendors, is based on quoted prices in active markets for similar, not identical, assets. The pricing data obtained from outside sources is reviewed internally for reasonableness, compared against benchmark quotes from independent pricing sources, then confirmed or revised accordingly. The estimated fair value of such instruments at March 31, 2018 approximates their carrying value due to their generally short maturities. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.InvestmentsAvailable-for-sale investment securities. The Company had $156 million in gross unrealized gains and $18 million in gross unrealized losses at March 31, 2018. There were $120 million gross unrealized gains and $4 million gross unrealized losses at September 30, 2017. A majority of the Company's long-term available-for-sale investment securities have stated maturities between one to two years. The redemption was funded with net proceeds from new fixed-rate senior notes issued by the Company in September 2017. This indemnification creates settlement risk for the Company due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. The Company’s settlement exposure is limited to the amount of unsettled Visa payment transactions at any point in time. The Company requires certain clients that do not meet its credit standards to post collateral to offset potential losses from their estimated unsettled transactions. The Company’s estimated maximum settlement exposure was $72.7 billion during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $67.7 billion during the three months ended September 30, 2017. Of these amounts, $2.7 billion and $2.8 billion were covered by collateral at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. However, the Company’s future obligations, which could be material under its guarantees, are not determinable as they are dependent upon future events.Note 6—Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits The Company sponsors various qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans that provide for retirement and medical benefits for all eligible employees residing in the United States. The Company also sponsors other pension benefit plans that provide benefits for internationally-based employees at certain non-U.S. locations. The components of net periodic benefit cost presented below include the U.S. pension plans and the non-U.S. pension plans, comprising only the Visa Europe plans. As-converted class A common stock is calculated based on unrounded numbers. Conversion calculations for dividend payments are based on a conversion rate rounded to the tenth decimal.Reduction in as-converted shares. During the six months ended March 31, 2018, total as-converted class A common stock was reduced by 34 million shares at an average price of $115.36 per share. Of the 34 million shares, 33 million were repurchased in the open market using $3.9 billion of operating cash on hand. Additionally, the Company recovered $50 million of VE territory covered losses in accordance with the Europe retrospective responsibility plan during the six months ended March 31, 2018. See Note 2—U.S. and Europe Retrospective Responsibility Plans. The following table presents share repurchases in the open market. These amounts include repurchases traded but not yet settled on or before September 30, 2017 for the six months, or December 31, 2017 for the three months, and exclude repurchases traded but not yet settled on or before March 31, 2018. As of March 31, 2018, the Company's April 2017 and January 2018 share repurchase programs had combined remaining authorized funds of $7.5 billion for share repurchase. See Note 2—U.S. The cash dividend will be paid on June 5, 2018, to all holders of record as of May 18, 2018. The Company declared and paid $490 million and $948 million in dividends to holders of the Company's common stock during the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively.Note 8—Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to each class by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding and participating securities during the period. Net income is allocated to each class of common stock and participating securities based on its proportional ownership on an as-converted basis. The weighted-average number of shares of each class of common stock outstanding reflects changes in ownership over the periods presented. See Note 7—Stockholders' Equity.Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding, participating securities and, if dilutive, potential class A common stock equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Earnings per share is calculated based on unrounded numbers. The weighted-average number of shares of as-converted class B common stock used in the income allocation was 405 million for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The computation includes approximately 4 million common stock equivalents for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and 5 million common stock equivalents for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, because their effect would be dilutive. The computation excludes 2 million of common stock equivalents for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and 3 million for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. The Company's performance-based shares are equity awards with service, market and performance conditions that are accounted for using the graded-vesting method. The Company recorded share-based compensation cost of $153 million for the six months ended March 31, 2018, net of estimated forfeitures, which are adjusted as appropriate.Note 10—Income Taxes The effective income tax rates were 19% and 21% for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively, and 84% and 56% for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, respectively. The reduction of the statutory federal corporate tax rate to 21% became effective on January 1, 2018. In fiscal 2018, the Company’s statutory federal corporate rate is a blended rate of 24.5%, which will be reduced to 21% in fiscal 2019 and thereafter. As a result of the reduction in the federal corporate tax rate, the Company remeasured its net deferred tax liabilities as of the enactment date of the Tax Act. Such foreign earnings are subject to a one-time tax at 15.5% on the amount held in cash or cash equivalents, and at 8% on the remaining non-cash amount. The 15.5% and 8% tax, collectively referred to as the “transition tax”, was estimated to be $1.1 billion, and was recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017. The Company intends to elect to pay the transition tax over a period of eight years as permitted by the Tax Act.The above-mentioned accounting impacts of the deferred tax remeasurement and transition tax are provisional, based on currently available information and technical guidance on the interpretations of the new law. The Company continues to obtain and analyze additional information and guidance as they become available to complete the accounting for the tax impacts of the Tax Act. Additional information currently unavailable that is needed to complete the analysis includes, but is not limited to, foreign tax returns and foreign tax documentation for the computation of foreign tax credits, the final determination of the untaxed foreign earnings subject to the transition tax, and the final determination of the net deferred tax liabilities subject to remeasurement. This provision is effective for the Company on October 1, 2018. The Company needs additional information to complete its analysis on whether to adopt an accounting policy to account for the tax effects of global intangible low-tax income in the period that it is subject to such tax, or to provide deferred taxes for book and tax basis differences that, upon reversal, may be subject to such tax. Hence, the Company has not recorded any tax on global intangible low-tax income in the six months ended March 31, 2018. The Company will make an accounting policy election no later than the first quarter of fiscal 2019. •Base erosion and anti-abuse tax, which, in general, functions like a minimum tax that partially disallows deductions for certain related party transactions. This new minimum tax is determined on a year-by-year basis, and this provision is effective for the Company on October 1, 2018. Hence, no base erosion anti-abuse tax has been recorded in the six months ended March 31, 2018.•Deduction for foreign-derived intangible income, which, in general, allows a deduction of certain intangible income derived from serving foreign markets. This provision is effective for the Company on October 1, 2018. Hence, the Company has not recorded the impact of this provision in the six months ended March 31, 2018.•Other new tax provisions, which disallow certain deductions related to entertainment expenses, fringe benefits provided to employees, executive compensation, and fines or penalties or similar payments to governments. The Company has recorded provisional amounts for the tax effects of these new provisions in the six months ended March 31, 2018, based on information currently available. The provisional amounts may change in future reporting periods when additional information is obtained and analyzed, which will occur no later than the first quarter of fiscal 2019.During the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company's gross unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $51 million and $7 million, respectively. The Company's net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective tax rate decreased by $34 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and increased by $4 million during the six months ended March 31, 2018. The change in unrecognized tax benefits is primarily related to an audit settlement as well as various tax positions across several jurisdictions. During the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, there were no significant changes in interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.The Company’s tax filings are subject to examination by the U.S. federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. The timing and outcome of the final resolutions of the various ongoing income tax examinations are highly uncertain. Some of these proceedings involve complex claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unascertainable damages. Although the Company believes that it has strong defenses for the litigation and regulatory proceedings described below, it could, in the future, incur judgments or fines or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Covered LitigationVisa Inc., Visa U.S.A. and Visa International are parties to certain legal proceedings that are covered by the U.S. retrospective responsibility plan, which the Company refers to as the U.S. covered litigation. See Note 2—U.S. and Europe Retrospective Responsibility Plans. An accrual for the U.S. covered litigation and a charge to the litigation provision are recorded when a loss is deemed to be probable and reasonably estimable. In making this determination, the Company evaluates available information, including but not limited to actions taken by the litigation committee. The total accrual related to the U.S. covered litigation could be either higher or lower than the escrow account balance. Unlike the U.S. retrospective responsibility plan, the Europe retrospective responsibility plan does not have an escrow account that is used to fund settlements or judgments. An accrual for the VE territory covered losses and a reduction to stockholders' equity will be recorded when the loss is deemed to be probable and reasonably estimable. See further discussion below under VE Territory Covered Litigation and Note 2—U.S. and Europe Retrospective Responsibility Plans. In addition, following the automatic termination of the settlement agreement with Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Visa and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. entered into a new, unconditional settlement agreement on October 31, 2017. As of the filing date, Visa Europe, Visa Inc. and Visa International have settled the claims asserted by over 75 Merchants, leaving more than 200 Merchants with outstanding claims.In November 2016, a trial commenced relating to claims filed by a number of Merchants. All of these Merchants except one settled before the trial concluded in March 2017. On November 30, 2017, the court found that Visa’s UK domestic interchange was not restrictive of competition and dismissed the remaining claim. A further judgment was published on February 23, 2018, which did not change the court's November 30, 2017 ruling but found that Visa's UK domestic interchange would not have been exemptible under applicable law if it restricted competition. The remaining Merchant lodged an appeal and the matter was listed for hearing in April 2018. In addition, over 30 additional Merchants have threatened to commence similar proceedings. Standstill agreements have been entered into with respect to some of those Merchants' claims. While the amount of interchange being challenged could be substantial, these claims have not yet been filed and their full scope is not yet known. Visa responded in writing to the revised Supplementary Statement of Objections in November 2017 and an oral hearing was held in February 2018. However, the rates on which those commitments were applied remain subject to limits imposed by the European Interchange Fee Regulation.Canadian Competition ProceedingsMerchant Litigation. The court in Quebec held a class certification hearing in November 2017 and reserved decision.Courts in all five Canadian provinces have preliminarily approved Visa's settlement with merchant class plaintiffs, and hearings on final approval are scheduled from June through August 2018.New Mexico Attorney GeneralThe parties reached a settlement agreement and the case was dismissed on April 10, 2018.EMV Chip Liability ShiftOn March 11, 2018, the court denied the plaintiffs' motion for class certification without prejudice.KrogerOn February 6, 2018, Kroger sought leave to file a second amended complaint. The parties have stipulated that the litigation, including consideration of that motion, be stayed until June 5, 2018.Nuts for CandyOn March 6, 2018, the court denied Visa's motion for summary adjudication of Nuts for Candy's California unfair business statute claims. The complaint alleged that defendants conspired to impede Black Card's business in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act and fraudulently concealed their conduct. Black Card sought treble damages, post-judgment interest, and attorneys' fees. On February 8, 2018, Black Card voluntarily dismissed its lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin without prejudice.This action followed a lawsuit filed by Black Card in the U.S. District Court for the District of Wyoming in February 2015 relating to a contractual dispute. The District Court in Wyoming granted Visa's motions for summary judgment and the matter was dismissed. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report.Forward-Looking StatementsThis Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that relate to, among other things, our future operations, prospects, developments, strategies and growth of our business; integration of Visa Europe, including the migration of European activity to VisaNet and anticipated benefits for our European clients; anticipated expansion of our products in certain countries; industry developments; expectations regarding litigation matters, investigations and proceedings; timing and amount of stock repurchases; sufficiency of sources of liquidity and funding; effectiveness of our risk management programs; and expectations regarding the impact of recent U.S.Tax Reform and accounting pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements. Forward-looking statements generally are identified by words such as "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "projects," “could," "should," "will," "continue" and other similar expressions. All statements other than statements of historical fact could be forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made, are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements in our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended September 30, 2017 and our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Except as required by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.22Table of ContentsOverviewVisa is a global payments technology company that enables fast, secure and reliable electronic payments across more than 200 countries and territories. We facilitate global commerce through the transfer of value and information among a global network of consumers, merchants, financial institutions, businesses, strategic partners and government entities. Our advanced transaction processing network, VisaNet, enables authorization, clearing and settlement of payment transactions and allows us to provide our financial institution and merchant clients a wide range of products, platforms and value-added services. Overall economic conditions. Our business is affected by overall economic conditions and consumer spending. Our business performance during the six months ended March 31, 2018 reflects continued economic growth around the world.U.S. Tax Reform Legislation. The Tax Act transitions the U.S. tax system to a new territorial system and lowers the statutory federal corporate income tax rate. As a result of the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate, we remeasured our net deferred tax liabilities as of the enactment date and the remeasurement resulted in a one-time, non-cash tax benefit estimated to be approximately $1.1 billion, recorded in the six months ended March 31, 2018. In transitioning to the new territorial system, the Tax Act requires us to include certain untaxed foreign earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries in our fiscal 2018 taxable income. This tax, referred to as the "transition tax", was estimated to be $1.1 billion and recorded in the six months ended March 31, 2018. See Note 10—Income Taxes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.Financial highlights. Our financial results for the six months ended March 31, 2018 reflected the impact of certain significant items that we believe were not indicative of our operating performance in these or future periods, as they were either non-recurring or had no cash impact. There were no comparable adjustments recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. The effect of exchange rate movements in the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, as partially mitigated by our hedging program, resulted in an approximately one-and-a-half percentage point positive impact to our net operating revenue growth.Total operating expenses for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 were $1.7 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively, an increase of 4% and 8%, respectively, over the prior-year comparable periods. Adjusted operating expenses, which excludes the non-recurring, non-cash operating expense related to Visa Inc. shares received by Visa Foundation in the prior year, increased 18% and 15%, respectively, over prior-year comparable periods. The increase in both periods was primarily driven by continued investments to support our growth.23Table of ContentsAdjusted financial results. Our financial results for the six months ended March 31, 2018 and the three and six months ended March 31, 2017 reflected the impact of certain significant items that we believe were not indicative of our ongoing operating performance in these or future periods, as they were either non-recurring or had no cash impact. As such, we believe the presentation of adjusted financial results excluding the following items provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for the periods presented. There were no comparable adjustments recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2018.•Remeasurement of deferred tax balances. During the six months ended March 31, 2018, in connection with the Tax Act's reduction of the corporate income tax rate, we remeasured our net deferred tax liabilities as of the enactment date, resulting in the recognition of a non-recurring, non-cash income tax benefit estimated to be approximately $1.1 billion.•Transition tax on foreign earnings. During the six months ended March 31, 2018, in connection with the Tax Act's requirement that we include certain untaxed foreign earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries in our fiscal 2018 taxable income, we recorded a one-time transition tax estimated to be approximately $1.1 billion.•Elimination of deferred tax balances. During the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, in connection with our legal entity reorganization, we eliminated deferred tax balances originally recognized upon the acquisition of Visa Europe, resulting in the recognition of a non-recurring, non-cash income tax provision of $1.5 billion.•Charitable contribution. During the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, associated with our legal entity reorganization, we recognized a non-recurring, non-cash general and administrative expense of $192 million, before tax, related to the charitable donation of Visa Inc. shares that were acquired as part of the Visa Europe acquisition and held as treasury stock. Net of the related cash tax benefit of $71 million, determined by applying applicable tax rates, adjusted net income increased by $121 million.Adjusted financial results are non-GAAP financial measures and should not be relied upon as substitutes for measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following tables reconcile our as-reported financial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, to our respective non-GAAP adjusted financial measures for the six months ended March 31, 2018 and the three and six months ended March 31, 2017. There were no comparable adjustments recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Operating margin, diluted earnings per share and their respective totals are calculated based on unrounded numbers. Common stock repurchases. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we repurchased 17 million shares of our class A common stock in the open market using $2.1 billion of cash on hand. In January 2018, our board of directors authorized an additional $7.5 billion share repurchase program. As of March 31, 2018, we had remaining authorized funds of $7.5 billion for share repurchase. See Note 7—Stockholders' Equity to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.25Table of ContentsNominal payments volume and transaction counts. Payments volume is the primary driver for our service revenues, and the number of processed transactions is the primary driver for our data processing revenues. Nominal payments volume over the prior year posted low double-digit growth for the three-month period and high single-digit growth for the six-month period in the United States, driven mainly by consumer credit and debit. Nominal international payments volume growth was positively impacted by the weakening of the U.S. dollar. Growth in processed transactions reflects the ongoing worldwide shift to electronic payments.The following table presents nominal payments and cash volume. Therefore, service revenues reported for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were based on nominal payments volume reported by our financial institution clients for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. For comparative purposes, international volume for the six months ended December 30, 2016 was adjusted to exclude co-badged volume. Total nominal payments volume is the total monetary value of transactions for goods and services that are purchased on cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and V PAY brands. Cash volume generally consists of cash access transactions, balance access transactions, balance transfers and convenience checks. Total nominal volume is provided by our financial institution clients, subject to review by Visa. On occasion, previously presented volume information may be updated. Prior-period updates are not material. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers.Results of OperationsOperating RevenuesThe following table sets forth our operating revenues earned in the U.S. and internationally. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers.The increase in operating revenues reflects the continued growth in processed transactions, nominal payments volume and nominal cross-border volume. Our operating revenues, primarily service revenues, international transaction revenues and client incentives, are impacted by the overall strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar as payments volume and related revenues denominated in local currencies are converted to U.S. dollars. The effect of exchange rate movements in the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, as partially mitigated by our hedging program, resulted in an approximately one-and-a-half percentage point positive impact to our net operating revenue growth.27Table of ContentsThe following table sets forth the components of our net operating revenues. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers.•Service revenues increased primarily due to 13% and 11% growth in nominal payments volume during the three and six-month comparable periods, respectively. •Data processing revenues increased mainly due to overall growth in processed transactions of 12% during the three and six-month comparable periods.•International transaction revenues increased primarily due to nominal cross-border volume growth of 21% and 18% during the three and six-month comparable periods, respectively.•Client incentives increased during the three and six-month comparable periods mainly due to incentives recognized on long-term customer contracts that were initiated or renewed after the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and overall growth in global payments volume. The amount of client incentives we record in future periods will vary based on changes in performance expectations, actual client performance, amendments to existing contracts or execution of new contracts.Operating ExpensesThe following table sets forth components of our total operating expenses. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers.•Interest expense increased in the six months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to the issuance of $2.5 billion fixed-rate senior notes in September 2017. See Note 4—Debt to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.•Other non-operating income increased in the six months ended March 31, 2018 due to a gain on the sale of an investment and higher interest income on our cash and investments.Effective Income Tax RateThe effective income tax rates were 19% and 21% for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively, and 84% and 56% for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, respectively. The reduction of the statutory federal corporate tax rate to 21% became effective on January 1, 2018. In fiscal 2018, our statutory federal corporate rate is a blended rate of 24.5%, which will be reduced to 21% in fiscal 2019 and thereafter. As a result of the reduction in the federal corporate tax rate, we remeasured our net deferred tax liabilities as of the enactment date of the Tax Act. The deferred tax remeasurement resulted in a one-time, non-cash tax benefit estimated to be approximately $1.1 billion, recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017.In transitioning to the new territorial tax system, the Tax Act requires that we include certain untaxed foreign earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries in our fiscal 2018 taxable income. Such foreign earnings are subject to a one-time tax at 15.5% on the amount held in cash or cash equivalents, and at 8% on the remaining non-cash amount. The 15.5% and 8% tax, collectively referred to as the “transition tax”, was estimated to be $1.1 billion, and was recorded 29Table of Contentsin the three months ended December 31, 2017. We intend to elect to pay the transition tax over a period of eight years as permitted by the Tax Act.The above-mentioned accounting impacts of the deferred tax remeasurement and transition tax are provisional, based on currently available information and technical guidance on the interpretations of the new law. We continue to obtain and analyze additional information and guidance as they become available to complete the accounting for the tax impacts of the Tax Act. The provisional accounting impacts may change in future reporting periods until the accounting analysis is finalized, which will occur no later than the first quarter of fiscal 2019.During the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, our gross unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $51 million and $7 million, respectively. Our net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective tax rate decreased by $34 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and increased by $4 million during the six months ended March 31, 2018. The change in unrecognized tax benefits is primarily related to an audit settlement as well as various tax positions across several jurisdictions. See Note 10—Income Taxes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.Adjusted effective income tax rate. Our financial results for the six months ended March 31, 2018 and three and six months ended March 31, 2017 reflect the impact of certain significant items that we believe are not indicative of our operating performance in these or future periods, as they were either non-recurring or had no cash impact. As such, we have presented our adjusted effective income tax rates for these periods in the tables below, which we believe provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for the reported periods. There were no comparable adjustments recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2018. See Overview—Adjusted financial results within this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for descriptions of the adjustments in the tables below. Cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended March 31, 2018 was higher than the prior-year comparable period, reflecting continued growth in our underlying business.Investing activities. Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended March 31, 2018 was higher than the prior-year comparable period as purchases of available-for-sale investment securities reflected additional investment of net proceeds received from new fixed-rate senior notes issued in September 2017.Financing activities. Cash used in financing activities for the six months ended March 31, 2018 was higher than the prior-year comparable period primarily due to the repayment of the 2017 Notes, an increase in the repurchases of our class A common stock and higher dividends paid in the current year. This increase was partially offset by payments from our litigation escrow account. See Note 2—U.S. and Europe Retrospective Responsibility Plans, Note 4—Debt and Note 7—Stockholders' Equity to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.Sources of LiquidityOur primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash flow from operations, our investment portfolio and access to various equity and borrowing arrangements. Funds from operations are maintained in cash and cash equivalents and short-term or long-term available-for-sale investment securities based upon our funding requirements, access to liquidity from these holdings, and the returns that these holdings provide. We believe that cash flow generated from operations, in conjunction with access to our other sources of liquidity, will be more than sufficient to meet our ongoing operational needs.Cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term available-for-sale investment securities held by our foreign subsidiaries, primarily attributable to undistributed earnings, totaled $7.2 billion at March 31, 2018. This excludes $1.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale investment securities we returned during the six months ended March 31, 2018 from our foreign subsidiaries to the United States. This transaction did not constitute a return of undistributed earnings. Pursuant to the Tax Act, we are required to pay U.S. tax on most of the undistributed and untaxed foreign earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries accumulated as of December 31, 2017. After December 31, 2017, if it were necessary to repatriate the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries for use in the United States, the repatriated earnings would not be subject to further U.S. federal tax.Uses of LiquidityThere has been no significant change to our primary uses of liquidity since September 30, 2017, except as discussed below. Based on our current cash flow budgets and forecasts of our short-term and long-term liquidity needs, we believe that our projected sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our projected liquidity needs for more than the next 12 months. We will continue to assess our liquidity position and potential sources of supplemental liquidity in view of our operating performance, current economic and capital market conditions and other relevant circumstances.Senior Notes. In October 2017, we redeemed all of the $1.75 billion principal amount outstanding of the 2017 Notes. The redemption was funded with the net proceeds from the new fixed-rate senior notes issued in September 2017. Interest payments of $276 million were made in fiscal 2018. See Note 4—Debt to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.31Table of ContentsCommon stock repurchases. During the six months ended March 31, 2018, we repurchased 33 million shares of our class A common stock using $3.9 billion of cash on hand. In January 2018, our board of directors authorized an additional $7.5 billion share repurchase program. As of March 31, 2018, we had remaining authorized funds of $7.5 billion for share repurchase. All share repurchase programs authorized prior to April 2017 have been completed. See Note 7—Stockholders' Equity to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.Dividends. During the six months ended March 31, 2018, we declared and paid $948 million in dividends to holders of our common stock. See Note 7—Stockholders' Equity to our unaudited consolidated financial statements. We expect to continue paying quarterly dividends in cash, subject to approval by the board of directors. All three series of preferred stock and class B and C common stock will share ratably on an as-converted basis in such future dividends.Fair Value Measurements—Financial InstrumentsAs of March 31, 2018, our financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis included $12.6 billion of assets and $82 million of liabilities. See Note 3—Fair Value Measurements and Investments to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.ITEM 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskThere have been no significant changes to our market risks during the six months ended March 31, 2018, compared to September 30, 2017.ITEM 4.Controls and ProceduresDisclosure controls and procedures. There has been no change in the internal control over financial reporting of Visa Inc. that occurred during the fiscal period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.32Table of ContentsPART II. OTHER INFORMATION ITEM 1.Legal Proceedings.Refer to Note 11—Legal Matters to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q for a description of the Company’s current material legal proceedings. For purposes of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q, the impact of these repurchases is recorded according to settlement dates. In April 2017 and January 2018, our board of directors authorized share repurchase programs for $5.0 billion and $7.5 billion, respectively. These authorizations have no expiration date. All share repurchase programs authorized prior to April 2017 have been completed.ITEM 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities.None. ITEM 4.Mine Safety Disclosures.Not applicable.ITEM 5.Other Information.None. VISA INC.