P.O. VisaNet also offers fraud protection for account holders and assured payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for account holders on Visa products. In most cases, account holder and merchant relationships belong to, and are managed by, Visa's financial institution clients. Consolidation and basis of presentation. The Company’s investments in VIEs have not been material to its consolidated financial statements as of and for the periods presented. Reference should be made to the Visa Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2017 for additional disclosures, including a summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies.In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented.Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements. The ASU will replace existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective. Subsequently, the FASB also issued a series of amendments to the new revenue standard. The Company will adopt the standard effective October 1, 2018, and expects to adopt the standard using the modified retrospective transition method. The Company expects that the new standard will primarily impact recognition timing for certain fixed incentives and price discounts provided to clients, and the classification of certain client incentives between contra revenues and operating expenses. The Company is still in the process of quantifying the full effect that ASU 2014-09 and all of its related subsequent updates will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. The impact of the new standard to future financial results is unknowable as it is not possible to estimate the impact to the recognition of new customer contracts which may be executed in future periods. The Company has completed an assessment of its existing customer contracts through December 31, 2017. Application of the new standard to consolidated financial statements for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 would not have resulted in a material impact. The Company will continue to assess the impact of the new standard as new customer contracts are executed going forward.In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-05, which clarifies that a change in the counterparty to a derivative instrument that has been designated as the hedging instrument under Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, does not, in and of itself, require dedesignation of that hedging relationship provided that all other hedge accounting criteria continue to be met. The Company adopted the standard effective October 1, 2017. The Company adopted the standard effective October 1, 2017. The adoption did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-07, which eliminates the requirement that an entity retroactively adopt the equity method of accounting if an investment qualifies for use of the equity method as a result of an increase in the level of ownership or degree of influence. The equity method investor is required to add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment becomes qualified for equity method accounting. The Company adopted the standard effective October 1, 2017. The adoption did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.Note 2—U.S. and Europe Retrospective Responsibility Plans U.S. Retrospective Responsibility PlanUnder the terms of the U.S. retrospective responsibility plan, the Company maintains an escrow account from which settlements of, or judgments in, certain litigation referred to as the "U.S. covered litigation" are paid. The escrow funds are held in money market investments along with interest income earned, less applicable taxes, and are classified as restricted cash on the consolidated balance sheets. The balance of the escrow account was $0.9 billion at December 31, 2017 and $1.0 billion at September 30, 2017. The Company paid $150 million from the litigation escrow account during the three months ended December 31, 2017. See Note 11—Legal Matters.The accrual related to the U.S. covered litigation could be either higher or lower than the litigation escrow account balance. The Company did not record an additional accrual for the U.S. covered litigation during the three months ended December 31, 2017. VE territory covered losses are recorded in "right to recover for covered losses" within equity before the corresponding adjustment to the applicable conversion rate is effected. Adjustments to the conversion rate may be executed once in any six-month period unless a single, individual loss greater than €20 million is incurred, in which case, the six-month limitation does not apply. When the adjustment to the conversion rate is made, the amount previously recorded in "right to recover for covered losses" as contra-equity is then recorded against the book value of the preferred stock within stockholders' equity. VE territory covered losses incurred reflect settlements with merchants and additional legal costs. See Note 11—Legal Matters. As-converted and book values are based on unrounded numbers. Money market funds, publicly-traded equity securities and U.S. Treasury securities are classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy, as fair value is based on quoted prices in active markets.Level 2 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The fair value of U.S. government-sponsored debt securities, as provided by third-party pricing vendors, is based on quoted prices in active markets for similar, not identical, assets. The pricing data obtained from outside sources is reviewed internally for reasonableness, compared against benchmark quotes from independent pricing sources, then confirmed or revised accordingly. Foreign exchange derivative instruments are valued using inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. There were no substantive changes to the valuation techniques and related inputs used to measure fair value during the three months ended December 31, 2017.Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring BasisNon-marketable equity investments and investments accounted for under the equity method. These investments are classified as Level 3 due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity, and the fact that inputs used to measure fair value are unobservable and require management's judgment. When certain events or circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, the Company revalues the investments using various assumptions, including the financial metrics and ratios of comparable public companies. There were no significant impairments during the three months ended December 31, 2017 or 2016. Long-lived assets such as goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, finite-lived intangible assets, and property, equipment and technology are considered non-financial assets. The Company does not have any non-financial liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. Finite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of customer relationships, trade names and reseller relationships, all of which were obtained through acquisitions. If the Company were required to perform a quantitative assessment for impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, the fair values would generally be estimated using an income approach. As the assumptions employed to measure these assets on a non-recurring basis are based on management's judgment using internal and external data, these fair value determinations are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. The Company completed its annual impairment review of its indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill as of February 1, 2017, and concluded that there was no impairment. No recent events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment existed at December 31, 2017.Other Fair Value DisclosuresLong-term debt. Debt instruments are measured at amortized cost on the Company's unaudited consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017. The fair value of the debt instruments, as provided by third-party pricing vendors, is based on quoted prices in active markets for similar, not identical, assets. The pricing data obtained from outside sources is reviewed internally for reasonableness, compared against benchmark quotes from independent pricing sources, then confirmed or revised accordingly. The estimated fair value of such instruments at December 31, 2017 approximates their carrying value due to their generally short maturities. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.InvestmentsAvailable-for-sale investment securities. The Company had $110 million in gross unrealized gains and $12 million in gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2017. There were $120 million gross unrealized gains and $4 million gross unrealized losses at September 30, 2017. A majority of the Company's available-for-sale investment securities with stated maturities are due within one to two years. The redemption was funded with net proceeds from new fixed-rate senior notes issued by the Company in September 2017. As a result of this redemption, we recorded a $1 million loss on extinguishment of debt during the three months ended December 31, 2017.The Company recognized interest expense for the senior notes of $138 million and $125 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, as non-operating expense.Note 5—Settlement Guarantee Management The Company indemnifies its clients for settlement losses suffered due to failure of any other clients to fund its settlement obligations in accordance with the Visa rules. This indemnification creates settlement risk for the Company due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. The Company’s settlement exposure is limited to the amount of unsettled Visa payment transactions at any point in time. The Company requires certain clients that do not meet its credit standards to post collateral to offset potential loss from their estimated unsettled transactions. The Company’s estimated maximum settlement exposure was $71.3 billion during the three months ended December 31, 2017, compared to $67.7 billion during the three months ended September 30, 2017. Of these amounts, $4.5 billion and $2.8 billion were covered by collateral at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively. These amounts are reflected in accrued liabilities on the Company's consolidated balance sheets.Note 6—Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits The Company sponsors various qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans that provide for retirement and medical benefits for all eligible employees residing in the United States. The Company also sponsors other pension benefit plans that provide benefits for internationally-based employees at certain non-U.S. locations. The components of net periodic benefit cost presented below include the U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans and the non-U.S. pension plans, comprising only the Visa Europe plans. Disclosures relating to other non-U.S. pension benefit plans are not included as they are immaterial, individually and in aggregate. As-converted class A common stock is calculated based on unrounded numbers. Conversion calculations for dividend payments are based on a conversion rate rounded to the tenth decimal.Reduction in as-converted shares. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, total as-converted class A common stock was reduced by 17 million shares at an average price of $110.27 per share. Of the 17 million shares, 16 million were repurchased in the open market using $1.8 billion of operating cash on hand. Additionally, the Company recovered $50 million of VE territory covered losses in accordance with the Europe retrospective responsibility plan. See Note 2—U.S. and Europe Retrospective Responsibility Plans. The following table presents share repurchases in the open market. These amounts include repurchases traded but not yet settled on or before September 30, 2017 and exclude repurchases traded but not yet settled on or before December 31, 2017. Average repurchase price per share is calculated based on unrounded numbers.As of December 31, 2017, the Company's April 2017 share repurchase program had remaining authorized funds of $2.1 billion for share repurchase. All share repurchase programs authorized prior to April 2017 have been completed. See Note 2—U.S. The cash dividend will be paid on March 6, 2018, to all holders of record of the Company's common and preferred stock as of February 16, 2018. The Company declared and paid $458 million in dividends to holders of the Company's common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2017.Note 8—Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to each class by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding and participating securities during the period. Net income is allocated to each class of common stock and participating securities based on its proportional ownership on an as-converted basis. The weighted-average number of shares of each class of common stock outstanding reflects changes in ownership over the periods presented. See Note 7—Stockholders' Equity.Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding, participating securities and, if dilutive, potential class A common stock equivalent shares outstanding during the period. The following table presents earnings per share for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Earnings per share is calculated based on unrounded numbers. The weighted-average number of shares of as-converted class B common stock used in the income allocation was 405 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. The weighted-average number of shares of as-converted class C common stock used in the income allocation was 51 million and 67 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The computation includes approximately 5 million common stock equivalents for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, because their effect would be dilutive. The computation excludes 2 million and 3 million of common stock equivalents for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. The Company's performance-based shares are equity awards with service, market and performance conditions that are accounted for using the graded-vesting method. The Tax Act transitions the U.S. tax system to a new territorial system and lowers the statutory federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%.The reduction of the statutory federal corporate tax rate to 21% became effective on January 1, 2018. In fiscal 2018, the Company’s statutory federal corporate rate is a blended rate of 24.5%, which will be reduced to 21% in fiscal 2019 and thereafter. As a result of the reduction in the federal corporate tax rate, the Company remeasured its net deferred tax liabilities as of the enactment date of the Tax Act. The deferred tax remeasurement resulted in a one-time, non-cash tax benefit estimated to be approximately $1.1 billion, recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017.In transitioning to the new territorial tax system, the Tax Act requires the Company to include certain untaxed foreign earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries in its fiscal 2018 taxable income. Such foreign earnings are subject to a one-time tax at 15.5% on the amount held in cash or cash equivalents, and at 8% on the remaining non-cash amount. The 15.5% and 8% tax, collectively referred to as the “transition tax”, was estimated to be $1.1 billion, and was recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017. The Company intends to elect to pay the transition tax over a period of eight years as permitted by the Tax Act. The above-mentioned accounting impacts of the deferred tax remeasurement and transition tax are provisional, based on currently available information and technical guidance on the interpretations of the new law. The Company continues to obtain and analyze additional information and guidance as they become available to complete the accounting for the tax impacts of the Tax Act. Additional information currently unavailable that is needed to complete the analysis includes, but is not limited to, foreign tax returns and foreign tax documentation for the computation of foreign tax credits, the final determination of the untaxed foreign earnings subject to the transition tax, and the final determination of the net deferred tax liabilities subject to remeasurement. This provision is effective for the Company on October 1, 2018. The Company needs additional information to complete its analysis on whether to adopt an accounting policy to account for the tax effects of global intangible low-tax income in the period that it is subject to such tax, or to provide deferred taxes for book and tax basis differences that, upon reversal, may be subject to such tax. Hence, the Company has not recorded any tax on global intangible low-tax income in the three months ended December 31, 2017. The Company will make an accounting policy election no later than the first quarter of fiscal 2019. •Base erosion and anti-abuse tax, which, in general, functions like a minimum tax that partially disallows deductions for certain related party transactions. This new minimum tax is determined on a year-by-year basis, and this provision is effective for the Company on October 1, 2018. Hence, no base erosion anti-abuse tax was recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017.•Deduction for foreign-derived intangible income, which, in general, allows a deduction of certain intangible income derived from serving foreign markets. This provision is effective for the Company on October 1, 2018. The Company has recorded provisional amounts for the tax effects of these new provisions in the three months ended December 31, 2017, based on information currently available. The provisional amounts may change in future reporting periods when additional information is obtained and analyzed, which will occur no later than the first quarter of fiscal 2019.During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Company's gross unrecognized tax benefits increased by $44 million. The Company's net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective tax rate increased by $38 million. The increase in unrecognized tax benefits is primarily related to various tax positions across several jurisdictions. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, there were no significant changes in interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.The Company’s tax filings are subject to examination by the U.S. federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. The timing and outcome of the final resolutions of the various ongoing income tax examinations are highly uncertain. It is not reasonably possible to estimate the increase or decrease in unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months.Note 11—Legal Matters The Company is party to various legal and regulatory proceedings. Some of these proceedings involve complex claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unascertainable damages. Although the Company believes that it has strong defenses for the litigation and regulatory proceedings described below, it could, in the future, incur judgments or fines or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Covered LitigationVisa Inc., Visa U.S.A. and Visa International are parties to certain legal proceedings that are covered by the U.S. retrospective responsibility plan, which the Company refers to as the U.S. covered litigation. See Note 2—U.S. and Europe Retrospective Responsibility Plans. An accrual for the U.S. covered litigation and a charge to the litigation provision are recorded when a loss is deemed to be probable and reasonably estimable. In making this determination, the Company evaluates available information, including but not limited to actions taken by the litigation committee. The total accrual related to the U.S. covered litigation could be either higher or lower than the escrow account balance. Unlike the U.S. retrospective responsibility plan, the Europe retrospective responsibility plan does not have an escrow account that is used to fund settlements or judgments. An accrual for the VE territory covered losses and a reduction to stockholders' equity will be recorded when the loss is deemed to be probable and reasonably estimable. See further discussion below under VE Territory Covered Litigation and Note 2—U.S. and Europe Retrospective Responsibility Plans. In addition, following the automatic termination of the settlement agreement with Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Visa and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. entered into a new, unconditional settlement agreement on October 31, 2017. All of these Merchants except one settled before the trial concluded in March 2017. On November 30, 2017, the court found entirely in Visa’s favor and entered judgment dismissing the remaining claim. An appeal has been lodged, and the Court of Appeal listed the matter for hearing in April 2018. A further judgment on exemption issues is expected to be released in early 2018, which will not change the overall finding on liability set out in the November 30, 2017 judgment.In addition, over 30 additional Merchants have threatened to commence similar proceedings. Standstill agreements have been entered into with respect to some of those Merchants' claims. While the amount of interchange being challenged could be substantial, these claims have not yet been filed and their full scope is not yet known. The Company has learned that several additional European entities have indicated that they may also bring similar claims and the Company anticipates additional claims in the future.Other LitigationCanadian Competition ProceedingsMerchant Litigation. The complaint alleges that defendants conspired to impede Black Card's business in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act and fraudulently concealed their conduct. Black Card seeks treble damages, post-judgment interest, and attorneys' fees.This action follows a lawsuit filed by Black Card in the U.S. District Court for the District of Wyoming in February 2015 relating to a contractual dispute. The District Court in Wyoming granted Visa's motions for summary judgment and the matter was dismissed. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report.Forward-Looking StatementsThis Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that relate to, among other things, our future operations, prospects, developments, strategies and growth of our business; integration of Visa Europe, including the migration of European activity to VisaNet and anticipated benefits for our European clients; anticipated expansion of our products in certain countries; industry developments; expectations regarding litigation matters, investigations and proceedings; timing and amount of stock repurchases; sufficiency of sources of liquidity and funding; effectiveness of our risk management programs; and expectations regarding the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements. Forward-looking statements generally are identified by words such as "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "projects," “could," "should," "will," "continue" and other similar expressions. All statements other than statements of historical fact could be forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made, are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements in our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended September 30, 2017 and our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Except as required by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.21Table of ContentsOverviewVisa is a global payments technology company that enables fast, secure and reliable electronic payments across more than 200 countries and territories. We facilitate global commerce through the transfer of value and information among a global network of consumers, merchants, financial institutions, businesses, strategic partners and government entities. Our advanced transaction processing network, VisaNet, enables authorization, clearing and settlement of payment transactions and allows us to provide our financial institution and merchant clients a wide range of products, platforms and value-added services. Overall economic conditions. Our business is affected by overall economic conditions and consumer spending. Our business performance during the three months ended December 31, 2017 reflects continued uneven economic growth around the world.U.S. Tax Reform Legislation. The Tax Act transitions the U.S. tax system to a new territorial system and lowers the statutory federal corporate income tax rate. As a result of the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate, we remeasured our net deferred tax liabilities as of the enactment date and the remeasurement resulted in a one-time, non-cash tax benefit estimated to be approximately $1.1 billion, recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017. In transitioning to the new territorial system, the Tax Act requires us to include certain untaxed foreign earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries in our fiscal 2018 taxable income. This tax, referred to as the "transition tax", was estimated to be $1.1 billion and recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017. See Note 10—Income Taxes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.Financial highlights. Our financial results for the three months ended December 31, 2017 reflect the impact of certain significant items that we believe are not indicative of our operating performance in these or future periods, as they were either non-recurring or had no cash impact. There were no comparable adjustments recorded for the three months ended December 31, 2016. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. The effect of exchange rate movements in the three months ended December 31, 2017, as partially mitigated by our hedging program, resulted in an approximately one percentage point positive impact to our net operating revenue growth.Total operating expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2017 were $1.5 billion, an increase of 13%, over the prior-year comparable period. The increase in the period was primarily due to increases in personnel expenses, general and administrative expenses, network and processing expenses and professional fees as we continue to invest to support growth.22Table of ContentsAdjusted financial results. Our financial results for the three months ended December 31, 2017 reflect the impact of certain significant items that we do not believe are indicative of our ongoing operating performance in this period or future periods, as they were either non-recurring or had no cash impact. As such, we believe the presentation of adjusted financial results excluding the following items provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for the periods presented. There were no comparable adjustments recorded for the three months ended December 31, 2016.•Remeasurement of deferred tax balances. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, in connection with the Tax Act's reduction of the corporate income tax rate, we remeasured our net deferred tax liabilities as of the enactment date, resulting in the recognition of a non-recurring, non-cash income tax benefit estimated to be approximately $1.1 billion.•Transition tax on foreign earnings. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, in connection with the Tax Act's requirement that we include certain untaxed foreign earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries in our fiscal 2018 taxable income, we recorded a one-time transition tax estimated to be approximately $1.1 billion.See Note 10—Income Taxes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.Adjusted financial results are non-GAAP financial measures and should not be relied upon as substitutes for measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table reconciles our as-reported financial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, to our respective non-GAAP adjusted financial measures for the three months ended December 31, 2017. There were no comparable adjustments recorded for the three months ended December 31, 2016. Diluted earnings per share and its respective total are calculated based on unrounded numbers. Common stock repurchases. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, we repurchased 16 million shares of our class A common stock in the open market using $1.8 billion of cash on hand. As of December 31, 2017, we had remaining authorized funds of $2.1 billion for share repurchase. In January 2018, our board of directors authorized an additional $7.5 billion share repurchase program. See Note 7—Stockholders' Equity to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.23Table of ContentsNominal payments volume and transaction counts. Payments volume is the primary driver for our service revenues, and the number of processed transactions is the primary driver for our data processing revenues. Nominal payments volume over the prior year posted high single-digit growth in the United States, driven mainly by consumer credit. Growth in processed transactions reflects the ongoing worldwide shift to electronic payments.The following table presents nominal payments and cash volume. Therefore, service revenues reported for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were based on nominal payments volume reported by our financial institution clients for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. For comparative purposes, international volume for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was adjusted to exclude co-badged payments volume. The associated growth rates for the three months ended September 30, 2017 were calculated using these adjusted amounts. Total nominal payments volume is the total monetary value of transactions for goods and services that are purchased on cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and V PAY brands. Cash volume generally consists of cash access transactions, balance access transactions, balance transfers and convenience checks. Total nominal volume is provided by our financial institution clients, subject to review by Visa. On occasion, previously presented volume information may be updated. Prior-period updates are not material. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers.Results of OperationsOperating RevenuesThe following table sets forth our operating revenues earned in the U.S. and internationally. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers.The increase in operating revenues reflects the continued growth in nominal payments volume, processed transactions and nominal cross-border volume. Our operating revenues, primarily service revenues, international transaction revenues and client incentives, are impacted by the overall strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar as payments volume and related revenues denominated in local currencies are converted to U.S. dollars. The effect of exchange rate movements in the three months ended December 31, 2017, as partially mitigated by our hedging program, resulted in an approximately one percentage point positive impact to our net operating revenue growth.The following table sets forth the components of our net operating revenues. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers.•Service revenues increased during the three-month comparable period primarily due to 10% growth in nominal payments volume.•Data processing revenues increased mainly due to overall growth in processed transactions of 12% during the three-month comparable period.25Table of Contents•International transaction revenues increased primarily due to nominal cross-border volume growth of 14% during the three-month comparable period. International transaction revenue growth was partially offset by lower volatility in a broad range of currencies.•Client incentives increased during the three-month comparable period mainly due to incentives recognized on long-term customer contracts that were initiated or renewed after the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and overall growth in global payments volume. The amount of client incentives we record in future periods will vary based on changes in performance expectations, actual client performance, amendments to existing contracts or the execution of new contracts.Operating ExpensesThe following table sets forth components of our total operating expenses. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers.•Interest expense increased in the three months ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to the issuance of $2.5 billion fixed-rate senior notes in September 2017. See Note 4—Debt to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.26Table of Contents•Other non-operating income increased in the three months ended December 31, 2017 due to a gain on the sale of an investment and higher interest income on our cash and investments.Effective Income Tax RateThe effective income tax rates were 22% and 31% for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2017 differs from the effective tax rate in the same prior-year period primarily due to the Tax Act. The Tax Act transitions the U.S. tax system to a new territorial system and lowers the statutory federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%.The reduction of the statutory federal corporate tax rate to 21% became effective on January 1, 2018. In fiscal 2018, our statutory federal corporate rate is a blended rate of 24.5%, which will be reduced to 21% in fiscal 2019 and thereafter. As a result of the reduction in the federal corporate tax rate, we remeasured our net deferred tax liabilities as of the enactment date of the Tax Act. The deferred tax remeasurement resulted in a one-time, non-cash tax benefit estimated to be approximately $1.1 billion, recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017.In transitioning to the new territorial tax system, the Tax Act requires that we include certain untaxed foreign earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries in our fiscal 2018 taxable income. Such foreign earnings are subject to a one-time tax at 15.5% on the amount held in cash or cash equivalents, and at 8% on the remaining non-cash amount. The 15.5% and 8% tax, collectively referred to as the “transition tax”, was estimated to be $1.1 billion, and was recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2017. We intend to elect to pay the transition tax over a period of eight years as permitted by the Tax Act.The above-mentioned accounting impacts of the deferred tax remeasurement and transition tax are provisional, based on currently available information and technical guidance on the interpretations of the new law. We continue to obtain and analyze additional information and guidance as they become available to complete the accounting for the tax impacts of the Tax Act. The provisional accounting impacts may change in future reporting periods until the accounting analysis is finalized, which will occur no later than the first quarter of fiscal 2019.During the three months ended December 31, 2017, our gross unrecognized tax benefits increased by $44 million. Our net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective tax rate increased by $38 million. The increase in unrecognized tax benefits is primarily related to various tax positions across several jurisdictions. See Note 10—Income Taxes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.Adjusted effective income tax rate. Our financial results for the three months ended December 31, 2017 reflect the impact of certain significant items that we believe are not indicative of our operating performance in this period or future periods, as they were either non-recurring or had no cash impact. As such, we have presented our adjusted effective income tax rate for this period in the table below, which we believe provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for the reported period. There were no comparable adjustments recorded for the three months ended December 31, 2016. See Overview—Adjusted financial results within this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for descriptions of the adjustments in the tables below. Cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was higher than the prior-year comparable period, reflecting continued growth in our underlying business.Investing activities. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was higher than the prior-year comparable period as purchases of available-for-sale investment securities reflected additional investment of net proceeds received from new fixed-rate senior notes issued in September 2017.Financing activities. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was higher than the prior-year comparable period primarily due to the repayment of the 2017 Notes and an increase in dividends paid in the current year, while the prior year included proceeds from issuance of commercial paper. This increase was partially offset by payments from our litigation escrow account and a decrease in the repurchases of our class A common stock. See Note 2—U.S. and Europe Retrospective Responsibility Plans, Note 4—Debt and Note 7—Stockholders' Equity to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.Sources of LiquidityOur primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash flow from operations, our investment portfolio and access to various equity and borrowing arrangements. Funds from operations are maintained in cash and cash equivalents and short-term or long-term available-for-sale investment securities based upon our funding requirements, access to liquidity from these holdings, and the returns that these holdings provide. We believe that cash flow generated from operations, in conjunction with access to our other sources of liquidity, will be more than sufficient to meet our ongoing operational needs.Cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term available-for-sale investment securities held by our foreign subsidiaries, primarily attributable to undistributed earnings, totaled $6.3 billion at December 31, 2017. This excludes $1.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale investment securities we returned during the three months ended December 31, 2017 from our foreign subsidiaries to the United States. This transaction did not constitute a return of undistributed earnings. Pursuant to the Tax Act, we are required to pay U.S. tax on most of the undistributed and untaxed foreign earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries accumulated as of December 31, 2017. If it were necessary to repatriate the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries for use in the United States in the future, the repatriated earnings would not be subject to further U.S. tax.Uses of LiquidityThere has been no significant change to our primary uses of liquidity since September 30, 2017, except as discussed below. Based on our current cash flow budgets and forecasts of our short-term and long-term liquidity needs, we believe that our projected sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our projected liquidity needs for more than the next 12 months. We will continue to assess our liquidity position and potential sources of supplemental liquidity in view of our operating performance, current economic and capital market conditions and other relevant circumstances.28Table of ContentsSenior Notes. In October 2017, we redeemed all of the $1.75 billion principal amount outstanding of the 2017 Notes. The redemption was funded with the net proceeds from the new fixed-rate senior notes issued in September 2017. Interest payments of $241 million were made in fiscal 2018. See Note 4—Debt to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.Common stock repurchases. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, we repurchased 16 million shares of our class A common stock using $1.8 billion of cash on hand. As of December 31, 2017, we had remaining authorized funds of $2.1 billion for share repurchase. All share repurchase programs authorized prior to April 2017 have been completed. In January 2018, our board of directors authorized an additional $7.5 billion share repurchase program. See Note 7—Stockholders' Equity to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.Dividends. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, we declared and paid $458 million in dividends to holders of our common stock. See Note 7—Stockholders' Equity to our unaudited consolidated financial statements. We expect to continue paying quarterly dividends in cash, subject to approval by the board of directors. All three series of preferred stock and class B and C common stock will share ratably on an as-converted basis in such future dividends.Fair Value Measurements—Financial InstrumentsAs of December 31, 2017, our financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis included $12.6 billion of assets and $65 million of liabilities. See Note 3—Fair Value Measurements and Investments to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.ITEM 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskThere have been no significant changes to our market risks during the three months ended December 31, 2017, compared to September 30, 2017.ITEM 4.Controls and ProceduresDisclosure controls and procedures. There has been no change in the internal control over financial reporting of Visa Inc. that occurred during the fiscal period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.29Table of ContentsPART II. OTHER INFORMATION ITEM 1.Legal Proceedings.Refer to Note 11—Legal Matters to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q for a description of the Company’s current material legal proceedings. For purposes of our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q, the impact of these repurchases is recorded according to settlement dates. In April 2017 and January 2018, our board of directors authorized share repurchase programs for $5.0 billion and $7.5 billion, respectively. These authorizations have no expiration date. All share repurchase programs authorized prior to April 2017 have been completed. ITEM 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities.None. ITEM 4.Mine Safety Disclosures.Not applicable.ITEM 5.Other Information.None. ITEM 6.Exhibits.The list of exhibits required to be filed as exhibits to this report is listed in the “Exhibit Index,” which is incorporated herein by reference.30Table of ContentsSIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. VISA INC.