FINANCIAL INFORMATION3ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS3CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME3CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME4CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS5CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS6NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS7ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS25ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK33ITEM 4. OTHER INFORMATION36ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS36ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS36ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS46ITEM 6. The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented. The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018 or any future period.The Company uses a 52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March 31. Fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2017 are both 52-week years ending on March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, respectively. The quarters ended on December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 each consisted of 13 weeks. The authoritative guidance provides a five-step process for recognizing revenue that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The authoritative guidance also requires expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures relating to the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The new authoritative guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application. The Company is currently evaluating the full impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements, including selection of the transition method. The Company continues to evaluate the impact to revenues and related disclosures related to the pending adoption of the new guidance and the preliminary assessments are subject to change. Depending on timing of customer orders, timing of shipment to distributors and to end customers, distributor inventory strategies and other factors that may be beyond the Company's control, the difference in revenue recognized under Sell-Through and Sell-In could be material in the future. The authoritative guidance will be effective for the Company beginning in fiscal year 2019 as the Company decided not to early adopt it in fiscal year 2018.In January 2016, the FASB issued the final authoritative guidance regarding how companies measure equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method and how they present changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured under the fair value option. The new authoritative guidance also changes certain disclosure requirements and other aspects of current U.S. GAAP. It does not change the guidance for classifying and measuring investments in debt securities and loans. The authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Upon adoption, the Company will record all of the unrealized gains or losses from its investment in mutual funds and equity securities to retained earnings, and subsequent changes in fair value from such investments will be recorded under its consolidated statements of income.In February 2016, the FASB issued the authoritative guidance on leases. The new authoritative guidance requires the recognition of assets and liabilities arising from lease transactions on the balance sheet and will also require significant additional disclosures about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows from leases. Accordingly, a lessee will recognize a lease asset for its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability for the corresponding lease obligation. The new authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Early adoption is permitted. The new authoritative guidance must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition, and provides for certain practical expedients. In addition, the transition will 7Table of Contentsrequire application of the new authoritative guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements.In August 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for cash flow classification. The new authoritative guidance is intended to reduce diversity in practice in how cash receipts and cash payments are classified in the statement of cash flows. The new authoritative guidance will be effective for public business entities in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those years, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements.In May 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that clarifies the scope of modification accounting for share-based compensation. The new guidance will reduce diversity in practice and result in fewer changes to the terms of an award being accounted for as modifications. The new authoritative guidance will be effective for public business entities in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of the annual period. The authoritative guidance will be effective for the Company beginning in fiscal year 2019 as the Company decided not to early adopt it in fiscal year 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2017, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that amended the accounting for hedging activities. The guidance permits more hedging strategies to be eligible for hedge accounting and simplifies the application of hedge accounting guidance in areas where practice issues exist. The new authoritative guidance will be effective for public business entities for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim periods after issuance of the authoritative guidance. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements. As of December 30, 2017 and April 1, 2017, Avnet accounted for 64% and 59% of the Company’s total net accounts receivable, respectively. For the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018, resale of product through Avnet accounted for 42% and 45% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues, respectively. For the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2017, resale of product through Avnet accounted for 42% and 43% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues, respectively.Xilinx is subject to concentrations of credit risk primarily in its trade accounts receivable and investments in debt securities to the extent of the amounts recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. The Company attempts to mitigate the concentration of credit risk in its trade receivables through its credit evaluation process, collection terms, distributor sales to diverse end customers and through geographical dispersion of sales. The Company’s methods to arrive at investment decisions are not solely based on the rating agencies’ credit ratings. Xilinx also performs additional credit due diligence and conducts regular portfolio credit reviews, including a review of counterparty credit risk related to the Company’s forward currency exchange and interest rate swap contracts. Additionally, Xilinx limits its investments in the debt securities of a single issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating and attempts to further mitigate credit risk by diversifying risk across geographies and type of issuer.As of December 30, 2017, approximately 33% of the portfolio consisted of mortgage-backed securities. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which Xilinx would transact and also considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of nonperformance.The Company determines the fair value for marketable debt securities using industry standard pricing services, data providers and other third-party sources and by internally performing valuation testing and analysis. The Company primarily uses a consensus price or weighted-average price for its fair value assessment. The Company determines the consensus price using market prices from a variety of industry standard pricing services, data providers, security master files from large financial institutions and other third party sources and uses those multiple prices as inputs into a distribution-curve-based algorithm to determine the daily market value. For certain securities with short maturities, such as discount commercial paper and certificates of deposit, the security is accreted from purchase price to face value at maturity. If a subsequent transaction on the same security is observed in the marketplace, the price on the subsequent transaction is used as the current daily market price and the security will be accreted to face value based on the revised price. The Company’s Level 2 assets and liabilities also include foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts.Level 3 — Unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar valuation techniques, as well as significant management judgment or estimation.The Company has no Level 3 assets and liabilities.Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring BasisIn instances where the inputs used to measure fair value fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the fair value measurement has been determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company’s assessment of the significance of a particular item to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, including the consideration of inputs specific to the asset or liability. However, the percentage of such losses to the total estimated fair value of the mortgage-backed securities was relatively insignificant. The gross unrealized losses that had been outstanding for more than twelve months were primarily related to debt mutual funds and mortgage-backed securities, which were primarily due to the general rising of the interest-rate environment and foreign currency movement. The Company reviewed the investment portfolio and determined that the gross unrealized losses on these investments as of December 30, 2017 and April 1, 2017 were temporary in nature as evidenced by the fluctuations in the gross unrealized losses within the investment categories. These investments are highly rated by the credit rating agencies, there have been no defaults on any of these securities and we have received interest payments as they become due. Therefore, the Company believes that it will be able to collect both principal and interest amount due to the Company. Additionally, in the past several years a portion of the Company's investment in the mortgage-backed securities were redeemed or prepaid by the debtors at par. Furthermore, the aggregate of individual unrealized losses that had been outstanding for twelve months or more were not significant as of December 30, 2017 and April 1, 2017, the majority of which were related to debt mutual funds due to foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. The Company neither intends to sell these investments nor concludes that it is more-likely-than-not that it will have to sell them until recovery of their carrying values. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties. See “Note 10. Debt and Credit Facility” for more discussion related to interest rate swap contracts. The interest rate swap contracts were designated and qualified as fair value hedges of the 2024 Notes, and were separately accounted for as a derivative. The interest rate swap contracts and the 2024 Notes were initially measured at fair value. Any subsequent changes in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the 2024 Notes will be recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. There was no ineffectiveness during all periods presented. Other than this arrangement, there have been no material changes to the Company's derivative financial instruments since April 1, 2017.Note 7. Stock-Based Compensation PlansThe Company’s equity incentive plans are broad-based, long-term retention programs that cover employees, consultants and non-employee directors of the Company. To date, the Company has issued a mix of non-qualified stock options and RSUs under the 2007 Equity Plan; however, there was no issuance of stock options during the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 and the entire fiscal year 2017. The Company's stock-based compensation expenses related to options during the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 and the number of options outstanding as of December 30, 2017 14Table of Contentswere not material. On August 9, 2017, the stockholders approved an amendment to increase the authorized number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2007 Equity Plan by 1.9 million shares. As of December 30, 2017, 11.3 million shares remained available for grant under the 2007 Equity Plan.The total pre-tax intrinsic value of options exercised during the three and nine months ended December 30, 2017 was $303 thousand and $3.5 million, respectively. The total pre-tax intrinsic value of options exercised during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016 was $2.8 million and $24.2 million, respectively. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company realized an immaterial amount of excess tax benefits after adjusting for the impact of the decrease in the tax rate from 35% to 31.5% due to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act as detailed in “Note 14. Income Taxes” to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in “Part I. Financial Information.” During the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, the Company realized excess tax benefits of $17.5 million. During the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2017, the Company realized excess tax benefits of $1.2 million and $10.9 million, respectively. These benefits were recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of income as a component of the provision for income taxes.Employee Stock Purchase PlanUnder the ESPP, shares are only issued during the second and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. Employees purchased 355 thousand shares for $16.9 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 and 446 thousand shares for $15.0 million during 15Table of Contentsthe second quarter of fiscal year 2017. The per-share weighted-average fair value of stock purchase rights granted under the ESPP during the second quarter of fiscal years 2018 and 2017 was $16.46 and $11.64, respectively. On August 9, 2017, the stockholders approved an amendment to increase the authorized number of shares reserved for issuance under the ESPP by 2.0 million shares. As of December 30, 2017, 9.9 million shares were available for future issuance under the ESPP.Note 8. Net Income Per Common ShareThe computation of basic net income per common share for all periods presented is derived from the information on the condensed consolidated statements of income, and there are no reconciling items in the numerator used to compute diluted net income per common share. The 2017 Convertible Notes matured during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, and the Company exercised its call options to neutralize the dilutive effect of the incremental shares from the 2017 Convertible Notes. The warrants were fully settled during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. Because the number of diluted shares in the above table for the nine months ended December 30, 2017 was calculated based on a weighted-average outstanding basis, it included approximately 2.0 million shares of dilutive impact from the 2017 Convertible Notes through the maturity date and 5.5 million shares of dilutive impact from warrants before the settlement. See "Note 10. Debt and Credit Facility" for more discussion of the Company's debt, call options and warrants. Outstanding stock options and RSUs under the Company's stock award plans to purchase approximately 248 thousand and 3.4 million shares, for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, respectively, were excluded from diluted net income per common share by applying the treasury stock method, as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. These options and RSUs could be dilutive in the future if the Company’s average share price increases and is greater than the combined exercise prices and the unamortized fair values of these options and RSUs. Debt and Credit Facility 2017 Convertible NotesDuring the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company received conversion requests from the remaining holders of the 2017 Convertible Notes. Upon settlement, the holders received a cash payment equal to the par value of the 2017 Convertible Notes of $457.9 million, as well as 9.0 million shares of the Company's common stock. In conjunction with the settlement, the Company exercised its call options on its shares of common stock that it purchased to hedge against the dilution from the conversion of the 2017 Convertible Notes, and received 9.0 million shares from the hedge counterparties. As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the 2017 Convertible Notes were no longer outstanding. All of the warrants were exercised as of December 30, 2017 and the Company issued 9.2 million shares of its common stock for the settlement.17Table of Contents2019 Notes and 2021 NotesOn March 12, 2014, the Company issued the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes at a discounted price of 99.477% and 99.281% of par, respectively. Interest on the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15. The Company received net proceeds of $990.1 million from issuance of the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes, after the debt discount and deduction of debt issuance costs. The debt discounts and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the terms of the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes. Interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1. The Company received net proceeds of $745.2 million from the issuance of the 2024 Notes, after the debt discount and deduction of debt issuance costs. The debt discounts and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the 2024 Notes. Borrowings under the credit facility will bear interest at a benchmark rate plus an applicable margin based upon the Company’s credit rating. In connection with the credit facility, the Company is required to maintain certain financial and nonfinancial covenants. As of December 30, 2017, the Company had made no borrowings under this credit facility and was not in violation of any of the covenants.Note 11. Common Stock Repurchase ProgramThe Board of Directors has approved stock repurchase programs enabling the Company to repurchase its common stock in the open market or through negotiated transactions with independent financial institutions. The 2016 Repurchase Program has no stated expiration date.Through December 30, 2017, the Company had used $628.7 million of the $1.00 billion authorized under the 2016 Repurchase Program, leaving $371.3 million available for future repurchases. The Company’s current policy is to retire all repurchased shares, and consequently, no treasury shares were held as of December 30, 2017 and April 1, 2017.During the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, the Company repurchased 4.7 million shares of common stock in the open market and through accelerated share repurchase agreements with multiple independent financial institutions for a total of $310.8 million. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2017, the Company repurchased 8.0 million shares of common stock in the open market for a total of $414.0 million.19Table of ContentsNote 12. Income TaxesThe Company recorded tax provisions of $183.2 million and $217.7 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, respectively, representing an effective tax rate of 94% and 39%, respectively. The TCJA provides for numerous significant tax law changes and modifications including the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the requirement for companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the TCJA began to impact the Company in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018, while other provisions will impact the Company beginning in fiscal year 2019. The corporate tax rate reduction is effective as of January 1, 2018. Since the Company has a fiscal year rather than a calendar year, it is subject to rules relating to transitional tax rates. As a result, the Company’s fiscal year 2018 federal statutory rate will be a blended rate of 31.5%. However, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 which will allow companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period that is similar to the measurement period used when accounting for business combinations. As of December 30, 2017, the Company has made a reasonable estimate of the effects on its existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax. The Company recognized a provisional amount of $183.2 million, which was included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations. The Company had previously accrued deferred taxes on a portion of these same earnings. The larger balance was permanently reinvested outside the U.S. The Company recorded provisional U.S. federal and state amounts for its one-time transition tax liabilities, 20Table of Contentsresulting in an increase in income tax expense of $582.8 million. In addition, the Company released the related deferred tax liabilities, resulting in a decrease in income tax expense of $424.3 million. The net increase to tax expense is $158.5 million. In addition, the one-time transition tax is based in part on the amount of those earnings held in cash and other specified assets either as of the end of fiscal year 2018 or the average of the year-end balances for fiscal years 2016 and 2017. The Company's calculation of this amount will change with further analysis, fourth quarter activities, and further guidance from the U.S. federal and state tax authorities about the application of these new rules. The Company will continue to evaluate the impact of the tax law change as it relates to the accounting for the outside basis difference of its foreign entities.As a result of the reduction of the corporate income tax rate to 21%, U.S. GAAP requires companies to remeasure their deferred tax assets and liabilities as of the date of enactment, with resulting tax effects accounted for in the reporting period of enactment. The Company remeasured deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. The provisional amount recorded for the remeasurement and resulting write-down of the Company's deferred tax balance was $26.2 million. The Company’s actual write-down may vary materially from the provisional amount because the final analysis will be based on balances as of March 31, 2018 and actual activities of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018.The difference between the blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 31.5% and the Company's effective tax rate in all periods of fiscal year 2018 was primarily due to the one-time transition tax net of the reversal of the related deferred tax liabilities. The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% and the Company’s effective tax rate in all periods of fiscal year 2017 was primarily due to income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions, for which no U.S. income tax had been provided, as the Company intended to permanently reinvest the earnings outside of the U.S.The Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits as of December 30, 2017 increased by $91.1 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 to $121.5 million. As of December 30, 2017, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if realized in a future period, would favorably affect the effective tax rate was $14.5 million. Another $85.5 million related to the 2037 Convertible Notes would increase additional paid-in capital. It is reasonably possible that changes to our unrecognized tax benefits could be significant in the next twelve months due to tax audit settlements and lapses of statutes of limitation. As a result of uncertainties regarding tax audit settlements and their possible outcomes, an estimate of the range of increase or decrease that could occur in the next twelve months cannot be determined at this time.The Company’s policy is to include interest and penalties related to income tax liabilities within the provision for income taxes on the condensed consolidated statements of income. The balance of accrued interest and penalties recorded in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and the amounts of interest and penalties included in the Company's provision for income taxes were not material for all periods presented.The statutes of limitations have closed for U.S. federal income tax purposes for years through fiscal year 2014, for U.S. state income tax purposes for years through fiscal year 2010, and for Ireland income tax purposes for years through fiscal year 2012.Note 15. CommitmentsXilinx leases some of its facilities and office buildings under non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through April 2029. Additionally, Xilinx entered into a land lease in conjunction with the Company’s building in Singapore, which will expire in November 2035 and the lease cost was settled in an up-front payment in June 2006. Some of the operating leases for facilities and office buildings require payment of operating costs, including property taxes, repairs, maintenance and insurance. Most of the Company’s leases contain renewal options for varying terms. Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was $0.9 million and $3.0 million for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2017, respectively. Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was $1.3 million and $3.8 million for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016, respectively. Rental income was not material for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal years 2018 and 2017.Other commitments as of December 30, 2017 totaled $157.5 million and consisted of purchases of inventory and other non-cancelable purchase obligations related to subcontractors that manufacture silicon wafers and provide assembly and test services. The Company expects to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications. Note 16. Product Warranty and IndemnificationThe Company generally sells products with a limited warranty for product quality. The Company provides an accrual for known product issues if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. As of the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 and the end of fiscal year 2017, the accrual balance of the product warranty liability was immaterial. The Company offers, subject to certain terms and conditions, to indemnify customers and distributors for costs and damages awarded against these parties in the event the Company’s hardware products are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights or trademarks, and to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. To a lesser extent, the Company may from time-to-time offer limited indemnification with respect to its software products. The terms and conditions of these indemnity obligations are limited by contract, which obligations are typically perpetual from the effective date of the agreement. The Company has historically received only a limited number of requests for indemnification under these provisions and has not made any significant payments pursuant to these provisions. The Company cannot estimate the maximum amount of potential future payments, if any, that the Company may be required to make as a result of these obligations due to the limited history of indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in each particular claim and indemnification provision. However, there can be no assurances that the Company will not incur any financial liabilities in the future as a result of these obligations.Note 17. On May 5, 2015, the Court ordered the litigation be stayed pending final resolution of the IPR. On April 18, 2016, the PTAB issued a final written decision in which all of the asserted claims were found unpatentable. On June 14, 2016, PTI filed notice of appeal from the final written decision. On June 13, 2017, the Federal Circuit affirmed the PTAB’s findings of invalidity. On July 19, 2017, the U.S. District Court case was dismissed with prejudice. No. The lawsuit pertains to two patents and IP Bridge seeks unspecified damages, interest, attorneys’ fees, costs, and a permanent injunction or an on-going royalty. On September 14, 2017, the court granted the Company’s motion to transfer venue and the matter is now pending before the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint filed by the Company pertained to twelve other patents and sought judgment of non-infringement by Xilinx, as well as costs, expenses and attorneys’ fees. On June 15, 2017, IP Bridge granted Xilinx a royalty-free covenant not to sue for infringement of those twelve patents, and on June 16, 2017, the parties filed a stipulated dismissal without prejudice of the declaratory judgment action in California. The lawsuit pertains to three patents and Anza seeks unspecified damages, attorney fees, interest, costs, and expenses. On October 27, 2017, the court granted the Company’s motion to transfer venue and the matter is now pending before the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The lawsuit pertains to a single patent and Lucio seeks injunctive relief, unspecified damages, interest, and costs. The complaint alleges causes of actions against Xilinx for negligence and civil conspiracy relating to alleged violations of U.S. export laws. It seeks at least $50.0 million in damages, together with punitive damages, from the defendants. On September 21, 2015, the action was withdrawn from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania and transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky. On November 2, 2015, Xilinx, along with other defendants, filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. On November 3, 2015, Xilinx filed a motion for sanctions pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11. On June 27, 2016, the Court denied both motions. On September 11, 2017, Xilinx, along with other defendants, filed motions for summary judgment seeking to dispose of the action in its entirety. The Court has not yet ruled on the motions for summary judgment. The Company intends to vigorously defend the case and is unable to estimate its range of possible loss, if any, in this matter at this time. The complaint alleges that to the extent the third-party plaintiff is found liable, that the actions or inactions of Xilinx and others entitles the third-party plaintiff to apportionment of damages based on the allegations against Xilinx in the case filed by the Chapter 7 Trustee of Valley Forge Composite Technologies, Inc. On August 28, 2017, Xilinx, along with other third party defendants, filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. On October 10, 2017, the Court granted the motion to dismiss. From time to time, the Company is involved in various disputes and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contract law, tax, regulatory, distribution arrangements, employee relations and other matters. Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each matter and assesses its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and a range of possible losses can be estimated, the Company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the Company continues to reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates. Note 18. Goodwill and Acquisition-Related IntangiblesAs of December 30, 2017, there have been no material changes to the Company's goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles since April 1, 2017. 23Table of ContentsNote 19. Subsequent EventsOn January 23, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.35 per common share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018. The dividend is payable on February 22, 2018 to stockholders of record on February 7, 2018. As previously disclosed by the Company on a Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 5, 2018, Victor Peng will succeed Moshe Gavrielov as the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer effective January 29, 2018. In relation to the CEO transition, as well as other executive transitions in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company expects to record a one-time charge of approximately $30.0 million to operating expenses in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018.24Table of ContentsItem 2.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThe statements in this Management's Discussion and Analysis that are forward-looking, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, involve numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this document. Often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. We disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this Management's Discussion and Analysis for any reason.Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our condensed consolidated financial statements. The SEC has defined critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. For more discussion please refer to "Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Form 10-K for the year ended April 1, 2017. For more discussion specific to the accounting for income taxes and the impacts from the enactment of the TCJA, please refer to “Note 14. Income Taxes” to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in “Part I. The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal year 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally. Specifically, we grouped the products manufactured at the 28nm, 20nm and 16nm nodes into a category named Advanced Products while all other products are included in a category named Core Products. Net revenues of $631.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 represented an 8% increase from the comparable prior year period of $585.7 million. Net revenues from Advanced Products increased 30% in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 versus the comparable prior year period, but the declines from our Core Products partially offset the increase. As of December 30, 2017, we had $48.0 million of deferred revenue and $15.0 million of deferred cost of revenues recognized as a net $33.0 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. As of April 1, 2017, we had $74.2 million of deferred revenue and $19.6 million of deferred cost of revenues recognized as a net $54.6 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. The increases for both periods were a result of sales growth from our 20nm, 16nm and, to a lesser extent, our 28nm product families. We expect sales of Advanced Products to continue to grow as more customer programs enter into volume production with our 28nm, 20nm and 16nm products.Net revenues from Core Products decreased in both the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 from the comparable prior year periods. For both the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, the decreases were largely due to decline in sales of our Virtex-5 and, to a lesser extent, our Spartan-3 and Virtex-6 product families. 26Table of ContentsNet Revenues by End MarketsOur end market revenue data is derived from our understanding of our end customers’ primary markets. The decreases for both periods were primarily driven by lower sales from wireless, particularly in the Europe and Japan regions, and to a lesser extent from wireline, particularly in the North America region. The increases were driven by higher sales across all sub-segments, particularly from consumer and automotive, throughout most regions. Net Revenues by GeographyGeographic revenue information reflects the geographic location of the distributors, OEMs or contract manufacturers who purchased our products. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers. Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in both the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily due to higher sales from consumer, primarily in China. 27Table of ContentsNet revenues in Europe increased in both the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 from the comparable prior year periods. Net revenues in Japan increased in both the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 from the comparable prior year periods. The increase in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 was due to favorable changes in end market mix, as the revenue mix shifted away from wireless, which generally has lower margin. Gross margin may be affected in the future due to multiple factors, including but not limited to those set forth in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" included in Part II of this Form 10-Q, shifts in the mix of customers and products, competitive-pricing pressure, manufacturing-yield issues and wafer pricing. We expect to mitigate any adverse impacts from these factors by continuing to improve yields on our Advanced Products, improve manufacturing efficiencies, and improve average selling price management. Advanced Products generally have lower gross margins than Core Products as they are in the early stages of their product life cycle and have higher unit costs associated with relatively lower volumes and early manufacturing maturity.In order to compete effectively, we pass manufacturing cost reductions to our customers in the form of reduced prices to the extent that we can maintain acceptable margins. Price erosion is common in the semiconductor industry, as advances in both product architecture and manufacturing process technology permit continual reductions in unit cost. The increases were primarily related to higher expenses associated with RSUs granted in the recent quarters, as more RSUs were granted, and were granted at a higher fair value. The TCJA provides for numerous significant tax law changes and modifications including the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the requirement for companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the TCJA began to impact us in our third quarter of fiscal year 2018, while other provisions will impact us beginning in fiscal year 2019. The corporate tax rate reduction is effective as of January 1, 2018. Since the Company has a fiscal year rather than a calendar year, it is subject to rules relating to transitional tax rates. As a result, our fiscal year 2018 federal statutory rate will be a blended rate of 31.5%. The change in the statutory tax rate from 35% to 31.5% for our fiscal year 2018 does not have a significant impact on the effective tax rate.The difference between this blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 31.5% and our effective tax rate in all periods of fiscal year 2018 was primarily due to the one-time transition tax net of the reversal of the related deferred tax liabilities as discussed in “Note 14. Income Taxes” to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in “Part I. Financial Information.”The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% and our effective tax rate in all periods of fiscal year 2017 was primarily due to income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions for which no U.S. income tax had been provided, as we intended to permanently reinvest the earnings outside of the U.S. The increases in the effective tax rate were partially offset by the reversal of deferred tax liabilities related to the portion of U.S. income tax on unremitted foreign earnings that had been accrued through the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $424.3 million.As of December 30, 2017, we recognized provisional amounts for the tax effects of the TCJA which were included as components of income tax expense from continuing operations and reflected in the effective tax rates above. We will continue to assess the impact of the recently enacted tax law on our business and our consolidated financial statements. The final impact of the TCJA recorded by us may vary materially from the provisional impact recorded due to a number of uncertainties and factors, including information not available until the completion of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ending March 31, 2018, the need for further guidance and clarification of the new law by U.S. federal and state tax authorities and the need for further guidance on the income tax accounting. While each of these provisions is expected to have an impact on our tax expense for fiscal year 2019 and future periods, we expect the tax on low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries to have the most significant impact. Because of the complexity of the new tax on low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries, we are continuing to evaluate this provision of the TCJA and the application of ASC 740. Our selection of an accounting policy will depend, in part, on analyzing our facts to determine what the impact is expected to be under each method. 30Table of ContentsFinancial Condition, Liquidity and Capital ResourcesWe have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity as well as debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock and debentures under our repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital. Additionally, our investments in debt securities are liquid and available for future business needs.The combination of cash, cash equivalents as well as short-term and long-term investments as of December 30, 2017 and April 1, 2017 totaled $3.64 billion and $3.44 billion, respectively. As of December 30, 2017, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $3.54 billion and working capital of $3.74 billion. As of April 1, 2017, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $3.32 billion and working capital was $2.98 billion.As of December 30, 2017, $3.20 billion of our $3.54 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was held by our non-U.S. jurisdictions. The recent TCJA that was signed into law on December 22, 2017 subjects U.S. companies to a one-time transition tax on total post-1986 earnings and profits of their foreign subsidiaries. The TCJA also generally allows companies to repatriate these accumulated foreign earnings without incurring additional U.S. federal taxes beginning after December 31, 2017. Accordingly, substantially all $3.20 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our non-U.S. jurisdictions will be available for use in the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes. The one-time transition tax liability will be payable in eight annual installments, as outlined in "Contractual Obligations" below. See “Note 14. Income Taxes” to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in “Part I. Financial Information,” for additional information about the one-time transition tax. Operating Activities —During the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, our operations generated net positive cash flow of $577.7 million, which was $50.1 million lower than the $627.8 million generated during the first nine months of fiscal year 2017. The net cash provided by operations during the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 was primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items, a decrease in inventory as well as an increase in other accrued liabilities and income tax payable. These items were partially offset by increases in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets as well as decreases in accounts payable. Accounts receivable increased by $104.5 million to $348.5 million at December 30, 2017 compared to $243.9 million at April 1, 2017. Days sales outstanding increased to 51 days at December 30, 2017 from 38 days at April 1, 2017, primarily due to timing of shipments and collections. Our inventory levels as of December 30, 2017 were slightly lower at $226.5 million compared to $227.0 million at April 1, 2017, and combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution decreased to 118 days at December 30, 2017 from 127 days at April 1, 2017. Investing Activities —Net cash used in investing activities was $318.9 million during the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, as compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $362.6 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2017. Net cash used in investing activities during the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 consisted primarily of $272.1 million of net cash used in purchases of available-for-sale securities, $28.9 million net cash used in purchases of property, plant and equipment and $17.8 million used in other investing activities.Financing Activities —Net cash used in financing activities was $314.1 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, as compared to $654.7 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2017. Net cash used in financing activities during the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 consisted of $457.9 million of cash repayment for the 2017 Convertible Notes, $310.8 million cash payment to repurchase common stock, $263.8 million dividend payments to stockholders and $44.4 million of payment for RSU withholdings, which were partially offset by $745.2 million of proceeds from issuance of the 2024 Notes and $19.6 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans.Contractual ObligationsWe lease some of our facilities, office buildings and land under non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through April 2029. See "Note 15. Commitments" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in "Part I. Financial Information," for a schedule of our operating lease commitments as of December 30, 2017 and additional information about operating leases.Due to the nature of our business, we depend upon subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and test services. The lengthy subcontractor lead times require us to order the materials and services in advance, and we are obligated to pay for the materials and services when completed. As of December 30, 2017, we had $157.5 million of outstanding inventory and other non-cancelable purchase obligations to subcontractors. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications. The 2024 Notes were offered to the public at a discounted price of 99.887% of par. Interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1. As of December 30, 2017, we had $750.0 million of the 2024 Notes outstanding. We also had $500.0 million of 2019 Notes and $500.0 million of 2021 Notes outstanding as of December 30, 2017. The 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes require payment of interest semiannually on March 15 and September 15. See "Note 10. Debt and Credit Facility" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part 1. "Financial Information," for additional information about our debentures.As of December 30, 2017, we had $531.5 million of liabilities classified as long-term income taxes payable in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Of the $531.5 million, $520.9 million was the estimated long-term portion of the one-time transition tax that resulted from the enactment of the TCJA, which will be payable in eight annual installments. The first installment is classified as a current income tax payable. The installment amounts will be equal to 8% of the total liability, payable in fiscal years 2019 through 2023, 15% in fiscal year 2024, 20% in fiscal year 2025, and 25% in fiscal year 2026. See “Note 14. Income Taxes” to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in “Part I. Financial Information,” for additional information about the one-time transition tax. The remaining $10.6 million of the long-term income taxes payable is for uncertain tax positions and related interest and penalties. We are not aware of any lack of access to the revolving credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that access to the credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our credit facility is not reliant upon a single bank. There have been no borrowings to date under our existing revolving credit facility.During the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, we repurchased 4.7 million shares of common stock in the open market and through an accelerated share repurchase agreement with an independent financial institution for a total of $310.8 million. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2017, we repurchased 8.0 million shares of common stock in the open market for a total of $414.0 million. On October 19, 2016, we announced our plan to utilize the $1.00 billion repurchase authorization under the 2016 Repurchase Program over the next several quarters. As of December 30, 2017, we have $371.3 million left available for future purchase. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2018, we paid $263.8 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing $1.05 per common share. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2017, we paid $250.7 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing $0.99 per common share. On January 23, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.35 per common share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018. The dividend is payable on February 22, 2018 to stockholders of record on February 7, 2018. We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, to procure additional capital equipment and facilities, to develop new products, and to potentially acquire technologies or businesses that could complement our business. However, the risk factors discussed in "Item 1A. These investments include mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, bank loans, debt mutual funds and commercial mortgage-backed securities. Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. The global credit and capital markets may experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. Therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate. See "Note 5. Financial Instruments" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in "Part 1. Financial Information. "Foreign Currency Exchange RiskSales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars.Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained and the hedged relationship has been effective, are deferred and included in income or expenses in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of income as they are incurred.We enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses and other liabilities when deemed appropriate. The outstanding forward currency exchange contracts expire at various dates through November 2019. The majority of net unrealized gains, which approximate the fair market value of the outstanding forward currency exchange contracts, are expected to be realized into net income within the next two years.33Table of ContentsOur investments in several of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. Other monetary foreign-denominated assets and liabilities are revalued on a monthly basis with gains and losses on revaluation reflected in net income. A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at December 30, 2017 would have affected the annualized foreign-currency-denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $11.0 million. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with its policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We continuously evaluate our internal controls and make changes to improve them as necessary. Contingencies" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Item 1. "Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.Item 1A.Risk FactorsThe following risk factors and other information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.Our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. Consolidation in our industry may increasingly mean that our competitors have greater resources, or other synergies, that provide them with a competitive advantage in those regards. Our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. Most of our wafers are manufactured in Taiwan by TSMC and UMC. In addition, we also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between us and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. We are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes. Therefore, the foundries, particularly TSMC who manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business. 36Table of ContentsWe cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a product for the full life of the product. In addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. For example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. We may also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products and a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. The insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.Earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our California and Singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. UMC's and TSMC's foundries in Taiwan and our assembly and test partners in other regions as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons. Any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities, and our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations. This type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. For example, as a result of the March 2011 earthquake in Japan, production at the Seiko foundry at Sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices. In addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily. Disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us. For example, our customers' supply of other complimentary products may be disrupted by a natural disaster and may cause them to delay orders of our products. More vertically-integrated competitors may be less exposed to some or all of these and other risks.General negative economic conditions and any related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.As a result of the 2008 global financial crisis, global consumer confidence eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. These concerns slowed global economic growth and resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in North America, Europe and Asia. The financial condition of certain sovereign nations, particularly in Europe, is of continuing concern as the sovereign debt crisis remains unresolved. These weak economic conditions resulted in reduced customer demand and had a negative impact on our results of operations in some parts of fiscal year 2012 and fiscal year 2013. If weak economic conditions return, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. Any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. The semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. Down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. Weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted, in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results.37Table of ContentsThe nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance. Due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. In addition to this, other factors may affect our end customers' demand for our products, including, but not limited to, end customer program delays and the ability of end customers to secure other complementary products. We also are dependent upon "turns," orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner. In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance.If we are not able to compete successfully in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected.Our PLDs compete in the IC industry, an industry that is intensely competitive, continues to consolidate, and is characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our PLD competitors, including Intel, Lattice and Microsemi, and from new market entrants. In addition, competition from the ASIC market and from the ASSP market continues. However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy. In addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products. Several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell PLD products. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software 38Table of Contentsdesign tools that support the full range of our IC products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. We could also face competition from our licensees. In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. Granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products.Increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. If greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers or other materials ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner. For example, when certain suppliers were forced to temporarily halt production as the result of a natural disaster, this resulted in a tightening of supply for those materials. Such shortages of wafers and materials as well as increases in wafer or materials prices could adversely affect our gross margins and would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands and lead to reduced revenue. We depend on distributors, primarily Avnet, to generate a significant portion of our sales and complete order fulfillment. Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 45% of our worldwide net revenues in the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 and as of December 30, 2017, Avnet accounted for 64% of our total net accounts receivable. Any adverse change to our relationship with Avnet or our remaining distributors could have a material impact on our business. Furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. In addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. A significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. In addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. This could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. Our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors.We are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services, and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, transitions to new service providers or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. In addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. In addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on turns within the same quarter.While our overall inventory levels fluctuate over time, the inventory of newer product lines may be higher than other products due to a planned increase in safety stock in anticipation of future revenue growth. In the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs. In addition, future product cost reductions could have an increased impact on our inventory valuation, which would then impact our operating results. 39Table of ContentsReductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. We seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. We also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. However, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins.Because of our international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our international operations have grown because we have established certain operations and administrative functions outside the U.S. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. We derive over one-half of our revenues from international sales, primarily in the Asia Pacific region, Europe and Japan. Past economic weaknesses in these markets adversely affected revenues. Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movements of the Euro and Yen exchange rates against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. In addition, any devaluation of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. We are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the U.S. which could adversely affect our business.In addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries, have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the U.S. and utilize third party warehouse operators to store and manage inventory levels for certain of our products. Additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, warehouses, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. Adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations, including instability and uncertainty as a result of Brexit, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 40Table of ContentsWe are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. Global credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. The global credit and capital markets may again experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability.Therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. Furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. Our failure to protect and defend our IP could impair our ability to compete effectively.We rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our IP. We cannot provide assurance that such IP rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other IP rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may attempt to misappropriate our IP through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against our indemnities or us in the future. Such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. This could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products or require us to pay costly royalties to third parties in connection with sales of our products. Any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our IP could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party IP. In the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools. Furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property, including hardware and software tools and products acquired from third parties. The design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools that are available to us. In addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties may contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our products. If the third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable or fails to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could be adversely affected. We rely in part on various IT systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. Consequently, we periodically implement new, or upgrade or enhance existing, operational and IT systems, procedures and controls. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. In addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties included in our IT systems may contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our IT systems. These systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. Failure of our IT systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. We also may be subject to unauthorized access to our IT systems through a security breach or cyber attack. We experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on an ongoing basis. Third parties may continue to attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our network systems. We seek to detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to and sabotage our systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate protections. Our business could be significantly harmed, and we could be subject to third party claims in the event of such a security breach. Our IT systems are also linked to the IT systems of customers, suppliers, and distribution partners and those links provide critical information we use to 41Table of Contentsmanage our operations, including information used for financial reporting. The IT systems of our customers, suppliers, and distribution partners and the links between our IT systems and our customers are subject to the same risks as that of our IT systems. Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us. We depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain, develop and transition such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. Changes to the U.S. immigration laws may also impact the availability of qualified personnel. From time to time we have effected restructurings which eliminate a number of positions. Even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. If we are unable to retain or develop existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Further, changes to our qualified personnel, including key members of management, may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully assimilate key new hires, or to successfully retain, develop and transition promoted employees, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. The amount of damages alleged in certain legal claims may be significant. As part of the settlement, we agreed to pay PACT a lump sum of $33.5 million. Certain other claims involving the Company are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under "Note 17. Contingencies" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part II. Item 1. "Financial Statements" of this Form 10-Q, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us.We develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. Despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. Subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. As a result, epidemic failure and other performance problems could result in claims against us, the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses.In addition, we could be subject to product liability claims. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. Product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. Any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business.42Table of ContentsIn preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. In preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. Those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience, input from outside experts and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. Our FPGAs and related technologies are subject to EAR, which are administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce. In addition, we may, from time to time, receive technical data from third parties that is subject to the ITAR, which are administered by the U.S. Department of State. EAR and ITAR govern the export and re-export of these FPGAs, the transfer of related technologies, whether in the U.S. or abroad, and the provision of services. We are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet EAR and ITAR requirements.An inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. We market and sell our products directly to OEMs and through authorized third-party distributors which helps to ensure that products delivered to our customers are authentic and properly handled. From time to time, customers may purchase products bearing our name from the unauthorized "gray market." These parts may be counterfeit, salvaged or re-marked parts, or parts that have been altered, mishandled, or damaged. Gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast supply or demand. Also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our authorized distributors may compete with brokers of these discounted products, which can adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our margins. In addition, our reputation with customers may be negatively impacted when gray market products bearing our name fail or are found to be substandard.The conflict minerals provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act could result in additional costs and liabilities. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC established disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in their products, regardless of whether such products are manufactured by third parties. These requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor products. The costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements include those for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. We may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all minerals used in our products through the due diligence process we implement. Moreover, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free.43Table of ContentsExposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in tax rules and regulations, changes in interpretation of tax rules and regulations, or unfavorable assessments from tax audits could affect our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations.We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies. Our income tax expense is computed based on tax rates at the time of the respective financial period. Our future effective tax rates, financial condition and results from operations could be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in the tax rules and regulations or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation will significantly change the taxation of U.S.-based multinational corporations, by, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, assessing a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. The legislation is unclear in some respects and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the Internal Revenue Service, as well as state tax authorities, and the legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. Furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings. The foregoing items could have a material effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions.In addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. There can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our effective tax rates, financial position and results of operations. Considerable amounts of shares of our common stock are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. As of December 30, 2017 we had 2.00 billion authorized shares of common stock, of which 254.7 million shares were outstanding. In addition, 28.8 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would in the future be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. We also may incur additional indebtedness in the future. A failure to comply with these covenants and other provisions in these indentures could result in events of default under the indentures, which could permit acceleration of the 2019 Notes, the 2021 Notes and the 2024 Notes. Any required repayment as a result of such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, and we may not realize the goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction.In the past, we have acquired technology companies whose products complement our products. We also have made a number of strategic investments in other technology companies. We may make similar acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. The 2016 Repurchase Program has no stated expiration date. Exhibit Title Form File No. XItems 3, 4 and 5 are not applicable and have been omitted.46Table of ContentsSIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. XILINX, INC.