Yes x No oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. The words “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “expect”, “intend”, “will”, “should” and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management’s current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. Given our status as a minority investor, we have limited contractual and other rights to information with respect to Fuji Xerox matters. We determined that our share of the total adjustments identified as part of the investigation was approximately $90 million and impacted our fiscal years 2009 through 2017. We revised our previously issued annual and interim consolidated financial statements for 2014, 2015 and 2016 and the first quarter of 2017. Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox continue to review Fujifilm’s oversight and governance of Fuji Xerox as well as Fuji Xerox’s oversight and governance over its businesses in light of the findings of the IIC. In 2018, in connection with the completion of audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified. These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 previously revised for the items identified by the IIC noted above. Any information on or linked from the website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-Q. Accordingly, certain information and note disclosures normally included in our annual financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted. You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2017 Annual Report.In our opinion, all adjustments, which are necessary for a fair statement of financial position, operating results and cash flows for the interim periods presented, have been made. These adjustments consist of normal recurring items. The error was the result of the plan administrator under reporting benefit payments. The correction of the PBO was recorded as an out-of-period adjustment in the third quarter 2018 with the offset to the balance sheet recorded as a credit to Changes in defined benefit plans, net in Other comprehensive income for the period. The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASC Topic 606 defines a five-step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method of adoption. Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize revenue upon invoicing the customer for the large majority of our revenue. Additionally, the unit of accounting, that is, the identification of performance obligations, is consistent with prior revenue recognition practice. Accordingly, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact for the large majority of our revenues. Lastly, a significant portion of our Equipment sales are either recorded as sales-type leases or through direct sales to distributors and resellers and these revenue streams are not impacted by the adoption of ASC Topic 606. The only change of significance identified in our adoption involves a change in the classification of certain revenues that were previously reported in Services revenues. These revenues relate to certain analyst services performed in connection with the installation of equipment that are being considered part of the equipment sale performance obligation in 2018. Accordingly, in 2018 these revenues are now reported as part of Sales. As a result of this change, $8 and $25 of revenue was recorded, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods. Deferred contract costs had been minimal under our prior practices as most costs to obtain a contract and fulfill a contract were expensed as incurred. However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to Retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts. Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and is recognized when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer or in the period the customer benefits from the service. With the exception of our sales-type lease arrangements, our invoices to the customer, which normally have short-term payment terms, are typically aligned to the transfer of goods or as services are rendered to our customers and therefore in most cases we recognize revenue based on our right to invoice customers. As a result of the application of this practical expedient for the substantial portion of our revenue, the disclosure of the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for our services is not required.Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligations in our Document management services arrangements as well the pattern of delivery for those services. For equipment placements that require us to install the product at the customer location, revenue is normally recognized when the equipment has been delivered and installed at the customer location. Sales of customer installable products are recognized upon shipment or receipt by the customer according to the customer's shipping terms. In arrangements that include minimums, those minimums are normally set below the customer’s estimated page volumes and are not considered substantive. These agreements are sold as part of a bundled lease arrangement or through distributors and resellers. We normally account for these maintenance agreements as a single performance obligation for printing services being delivered in a series with delivery being measured by usage as billed to the customer. Accordingly, revenue on these agreements are normally recognized as billed to the customer over the term of the agreements based on page volumes. A substantial portion of our products are sold with full service maintenance agreements, accordingly, other than the product warranty obligations associated with certain of our entry level products, we do not have any significant warranty obligations, including any obligations under customer satisfaction programs. Revenues on unit-price contracts are recognized at the contractual selling prices as work is completed by the customer. We account for these arrangements as a single performance obligation for printing services being delivered in a series with delivery being measured by usage as billed to the customer. In these instances, we follow the policies noted for Equipment or Software Revenues and separately report the revenue associated with these performance obligations. Certain document management services arrangements may also include an embedded lease of equipment. In these instances, the revenues associated with the lease are recognized in accordance with the requirements for lease accounting. We refer to our distributor and reseller network as our two-tier distribution model. Revenues on sales to distributors and resellers are generally recognized when products are shipped to such distributors and resellers. However, revenue is only recognized when the distributor or reseller has economic substance apart from the Company such that collectability is probable and we have no further obligations related to bringing about the resale, delivery or installation of the product that would impact transfer of control. Revenues associated with maintenance agreements sold through distributors and resellers to end customers are recognized in a consistent manner to maintenance services. Revenue that may be subject to a reversal of revenue due to contractual terms or uncertainties is not recorded as revenue until the contractual provisions lapse or the uncertainties are resolved. Distributors and resellers participate in various rebate, price-protection, cooperative marketing and other programs, and we estimate the variable consideration associated with these programs and record those amounts as a reduction to revenue when the sales occur. Similarly, we account for our estimates of sales returns and other allowances when the sales occur based on our historical experience.In certain instances, we may provide lease financing to end-user customers who purchased equipment we sold to distributors or resellers. These arrangements also typically include an incremental, variable component for page volumes in excess of contractual page volume minimums, which are often expressed in terms of price-per-page. In applying our lease accounting methodology, we only consider the fixed payments for purposes of allocating to the relative fair value elements of the contract.Revenues under bundled arrangements are allocated considering the relative standalone selling prices of the lease and non-lease deliverables included in the bundled arrangement. Lease deliverables include the equipment, financing, maintenance and other executory costs, while non-lease deliverables generally consist of the supplies and non-maintenance services. The allocation for the lease deliverables begins by allocating revenues to the maintenance and other executory costs plus a profit thereon. These elements are generally recognized over the term of the lease as service revenue. Equipment placements included in arrangements meeting these conditions are accounted for as sales-type leases and revenue is recognized as noted above for Equipment. Equipment placements included in arrangements that do not meet these conditions are accounted for as operating leases and revenue is recognized over the term of the lease. We consider the economic life of most of our products to be five years, since this represents the most frequent contractual lease term for our principal products and only a small percentage of our leases are for original terms longer than five years. There is no significant after-market for our used equipment. We believe five years is representative of the period during which the equipment is expected to be economically usable, with normal service, for the purpose for which it is intended. Residual values are not significant.With respect to fair value, we perform an analysis of equipment fair value based on cash selling prices during the applicable period. The cash selling prices are compared to the range of values determined for our leases. We reassess our pricing interest rates quarterly based on changes in the local prevailing rates in the marketplace. These interest rates have generally been adjusted if the rates vary by 25 basis points or more, cumulatively, from the rate last in effect. Software accessories sold in connection with our Equipment sales, as well as free-standing software sales are accounted for as separate performance obligations if determined to be material in relation to the overall arrangement. Also includes revenues from embedded operating leases, which were not significant. Our contract liabilities, which represent billings in excess of revenue recognized, are primarily related to advanced billings for maintenance and other services to be performed and were approximately $108 and $91 at September 30, 2018 and January 1, 2018, respectively. These costs are deferred and amortized on the straight-line basis over the estimated contract term, which is currently estimated to be approximately four years. We pay commensurate sales commissions upon customer renewals, therefore our amortization period is aligned to our initial contract term. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract of $22 and $62, respectively, were deferred and the related amortization was $24 and $72, respectively. The balance of deferred incremental direct costs net of accumulated amortization at September 30, 2018 was $174. This amount is expected to be amortized over its estimated period of benefit, which we currently estimate to be approximately four years. We may also incur costs associated with our services arrangements to generate or enhance resources and assets that will be used to satisfy our future performance obligations included in these arrangements. These costs are considered contract fulfillment costs. These costs are amortized over the contractual service period of the arrangement to cost of services. In addition, we also provide inducements to certain customers in various forms, including contractual credits, which are capitalized and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the term of the contract. This update requires the recognition of right-to-use assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases currently classified as operating leases under existing lease guidance. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition. Short term leases with a term of 12 months or less are not required to be recognized. The update also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosure of key information regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing arrangements to increase transparency and comparability among companies. The accounting for lessors does not fundamentally change with this update except for changes to conform and align guidance to the lessee guidance as well as to the new revenue recognition guidance in ASU 2014-09. Some of these conforming changes such as those related to the definition of minimum lease payments, may potentially result in certain lease arrangements, which are currently accounted for as operating leases, being classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019 and certain practical expedients can be elected upon adoption. On the Lessee side, a cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements. The Company has made progress in gathering the necessary data elements for the lease population and a system provider has been selected, with system configuration and implementation underway. The Company is currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance. On the Lessor side, the Company continues to assess the potential impacts of the guidance on its lease agreements with customers, including potential changes in contracting terms, and we also expect to elect the package of practical expedients. The aggregate undiscounted value of our operating lease commitments at December 31, 2017 was approximately $450 and was primarily related to leases of facilities. The update impacts financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through Net income. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020. The amendments in this update expand and refine hedge accounting for both financial and non-financial risk components, aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of hedging instruments with the same income statement line item that the hedged item is reported and includes certain targeted improvements to ease the application of current guidance related to the assessment of hedge effectiveness. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019. The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense. The capitalized implementation costs are required to be expensed over the term of the hosting arrangement. The update also clarifies the presentation requirements for reporting such costs in the entity’s financial statements. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020 and early adoption is permitted. Consequently, the update eliminates the stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Act and will improve the usefulness of information reported to financial statement users. However, because the update only relates to the reclassification of the income tax effects of the Tax Act, the underlying guidance that requires that the effect of a change in tax laws or rates be included in Income from continuing operations is not affected. The update also requires certain disclosures about stranded tax effects. The update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019. Early adoption of this update is permitted, including adoption in any interim period. This update provides specific guidance on eight cash flow classification issues where current guidance is either unclear or does not include specific requirements. We adopted ASU 2016-15 effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018. This update includes specific guidance, that requires cash collected on beneficial interests received in a sale of receivables be classified as inflows from investing activities. Formerly, those collections were reported in operating cash flows. We reported $60 and $170 of collections on beneficial interests as operating cash inflows on the Statement of Cash Flows for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. Since the update is required to be applied retrospectively, our reported 2017 operating and investing cash flows were revised accordingly in 2018 to report this amount as investing cash flows. There is no expected impact to our 2018 cash flows from this reporting change, due to the termination of all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and all but one arrangement in Europe and the final repurchase of previously sold finance receivables during the fourth quarter of 2017. The update requires that amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with Cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. We adopted ASU 2016-18 effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018 and applied it retrospectively through a revision of previously reported amounts. We held $61 and $75 of restricted cash, currently reported in Other current or long-term assets at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The changes in our restricted cash balances were primarily related to our accounts receivable sales programs, which were terminated during the fourth quarter of 2017. Accordingly, this update did not have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. This update changes how employers that sponsor defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans present net periodic benefit costs in the income statement. An employer is required to report the service cost component in the same line item or items as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the affected employees during the period. Other components of net retirement benefit cost are required to be presented in the income statement separately from the service cost component and outside a subtotal of Income from operations, if one is presented. We elected to report these costs as a separate item within Other expenses, net. The update also allows only the service cost component to be eligible for capitalization, when applicable. We adopted ASU 2017-07 effective for us beginning January 1, 2018. The presentation requirements of this update were required to be applied retrospectively through a revision of previously reported amounts. The requirement to limit capitalization to the service cost component was required to be applied prospectively. The adoption of this update did not have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We adopted ASU 2017-01 effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018, and the adoption did not have nor is it expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. This update requires recognition of the income-tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Under current GAAP, recognition of the income tax consequences for asset transfers other than inventory could not be recognized until the asset was sold to a third party. We adopted ASU 2016-16 effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018 and the adoption did not have nor is it expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. SAB No. 118 provides for a provisional one-year measurement period for entities to finalize their accounting for certain income tax effects related to the Tax Act. SAB No. SAB No. 118 requires disclosure of the reasons for incomplete accounting additional information or analysis needed, among other relevant information. During the fourth quarter 2017, we recorded an estimated non-cash charge of $400 reflecting our provisional estimated impact associated with the provisions of the Tax Act based on currently available information. The adjustment includes changes to the determination of the one-time deemed repatriation tax as well as additional re-measurement of our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities to the lower enacted statutory tax rate. The total charge of $495 related to the Tax Act remains a provisional estimate as we continue to evaluate and consider additional impacts including those related to interpretive guidance from the U.S. Treasury and IRS as well as filing positions we may take on our 2018 U.S. Tax Return. Accordingly, additional adjustments, possibly material, may be recorded in the fourth quarter 2018 as we finalize our estimate related to the Tax Act. Any adjustments to this provisional amount will be reported as a component of Income tax expense.Other UpdatesIn 2018, 2017 and 2016, the FASB also issued the following Accounting Standards Updates, which did not have or are not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows upon adoption. 117 and SEC Release No. As a result of the Separation and Distribution, the financial position and results of operations of the BPO business are presented as Discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from Continuing operations for all periods presented. As more fully discussed in Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation, various litigation matters in Brazil require us to make cash deposits to escrow as a condition of continuing the litigation. The allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable is determined principally on the basis of past collection experience as well as consideration of current economic conditions and changes in our customer collection trends. Accounts Receivable Sales Arrangements Accounts receivable sales arrangements are utilized in the normal course of business as part of our cash and liquidity management. The accounts receivable sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days. During the fourth quarter 2017, we terminated all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and all but one arrangement in Europe. The remaining facility in Europe enables us to sell accounts receivable associated with our distributor network on an ongoing basis, without recourse. Under this arrangement, we sell our entire interest in the related accounts receivable for cash and no portion of the payment is held back or deferred by the purchaser.Of the accounts receivable sold and derecognized from our balance sheet, $98 and $161 remained uncollected as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. In these instances, we ensure the sale of the receivables are bankruptcy remote and the payment made to us is without recourse. The activity associated with these arrangements is not reflected in this disclosure as payments under these arrangements have not been material and these are customer directed arrangements. Our finance receivable portfolios are primarily in the U.S., Canada and Europe. We generally establish customer credit limits and estimate the allowance for credit losses on a country or geographic basis. These customers are less susceptible to adverse effects due to shifts in economic conditions or changes in circumstance. Although we experience higher loss rates associated with this customer class, we believe the risk is somewhat mitigated by the fact that our leases are fairly well dispersed across a large and diverse customer base. In addition, the higher loss rates are largely offset by the higher rates of return we obtain with such leases. We use numerous strategies to mitigate risk including higher rates of interest, prepayments, personal guarantees, etc. Accounts in this category include customers who were downgraded during the term of the lease from investment and non-investment grade evaluation when the lease was originated. Accordingly, there is a distinct possibility for a loss of principal and interest or customer default. The loss rates in this category are generally in the range of 7% to 10%.Credit quality indicators are updated at least annually and the credit quality of any given customer can change during the life of the portfolio. In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, out-of-period adjustments and misstatements were identified. These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments. In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries where previous misstatements were identified. Our recognition of 25% of Fuji Xerox’s net loss for Xerox’s first quarter 2018 included an approximately $28 charge related to these adjustments and misstatements. We determined that the impact of the out-of-period misstatements was not material to Xerox’s consolidated financial statements for any individual prior quarter or year and the adjustment to correct the misstatements is not expected to be material to our full year 2018 results. The swaps were structured to hedge the fair value of related debt by converting them from fixed rate instruments to variable rate instruments. No ineffective portion was recorded to earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Approximately 78% of the contracts at September 30, 2018 mature within three months, 11% mature in three to six months and 11% in six to twelve months. Pound Sterling exposure, which decreased $128. There has not been any material change in our hedging strategy.Foreign Currency Cash Flow HedgesWe designate a portion of our foreign currency derivative contracts as cash flow hedges of our foreign currency-denominated inventory purchases, sales and expenses. In addition, no amount was recorded for an underlying exposure that did not occur or was not expected to occur.As of September 30, 2018, a net after-tax loss of $7 was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss associated with our cash flow hedging activity. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 currency losses, net were $0 and $4, respectively. Net currency gains and losses include the mark-to-market adjustments of the derivatives not designated as hedging instruments and the related cost of those derivatives as well as the re-measurement of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities and are included in Other expenses, net.Note 13 – Fair Value of Financial Assets and LiabilitiesThe following table represents assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The basis for the measurement at fair value in all cases is Level 2 – Significant Other Observable Inputs. The income approach uses pricing models that rely on market observable inputs such as yield curves, currency exchange rates and forward prices, and therefore are classified as Level 2.Fair value for our deferred compensation plan investments in mutual funds is based on quoted market prices for those funds. Funded Pension Plan at December 31, 2017. Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation for additional information regarding this adjustment. This negative plan amendment is expected to result in a reduction in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation of approximately $280, which consists of approximately $215 for the plan amendment and an actuarial gain of approximately $65 related to the required plan remeasurement upon amendment. The plan amendment is also expected to reduce 2019 cash contributions from Xerox by approximately $20.Contributions The following table summarizes cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plans and retiree health benefit plans. We grant stock-based compensation awards in order to continue to attract and retain qualified employees and to better align employees' interests with those of our shareholders. The Board also approved a change in the timing of our annual grant of awards from July to April, to better align our grant date with other annual incentive compensation payments and the underlying performance period related to PSs. We grant RSUs and PSs to officers, selected executives and middle managers, and SOs to officers and selected executives only.Restricted Stock UnitsCompensation expense for RSUs is based upon the grant date market price and is recognized on a straight-line basis over a three-year graded-vesting period, based on management's estimate of the number of shares expected to vest. Prior to the April 2018 grant, RSUs vested on a three-year cliff basis from the date of grant. Shares granted through September 30, 2018 under our new program were 1,130, with a corresponding weighted average grant date fair value of $27.61 per share. The Board retained the Revenue metric as a performance goal as well as the three-year performance period for all measures. The performance goals are independent of each other and depending on the achievement of these metrics, a recipient of a PS award is entitled to receive a number of shares equal to a percentage, ranging from 0% to 200% of the PS award granted. PSs retain the three-year cliff vesting from the date of grant. Performance-Based ComponentPSs vest contingent upon meeting pre-determined cumulative goals for revenue and free cash flow. The fair value of the performance-based component of our PSs is based upon the grant-date market price. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on management's estimate of the number of shares expected to vest. If the cumulative three-year actual results exceed the stated targets, all plan participants have the potential to earn additional shares of common stock up to a maximum overachievement of 100% of the original grant. If the stated targets are not met, any recognized compensation cost would be reversed. Shares granted through September 30, 2018 under our new program were 693, with a corresponding weighted average grant date fair value of $27.88 per share.As a result of the change in management in the second quarter 2018, the Board is currently reviewing this plan and has not finalized the performance measures and corresponding weightings and therefore the plan remains discretionary as of the third quarter 2018. Since final performance measures have not been approved as of September 30, 2018, the criteria needed to establish a grant date has not been met and therefore the fair value of the April 2018 grant will continue to be revalued based on the period end stock price for each subsequent reporting period until the grant date criteria has been met.Market-Based ComponentThe TSR metric is based on the percentage change in the Company’s stock price plus the dividends paid over the three-year measurement period. Since the TSR portion of the PS award represents a market condition, a Monte Carlo simulation was used to determine the grant-date fair value. Shares granted through September 30, 2018 under our new program were 346.Stock OptionsThe Board also approved the granting of SOs as part of the 2018 plan design. Except for the conversion of options relating to our acquisition of Affiliated Computer Systems in 2010, we have not issued any SOs since 2004. Similar to RSUs, SOs awarded to employees who are retirement-eligible at the date of grant, become retirement-eligible during the vesting period, or are terminated not-for-cause, vest based on service provided from the date of grant to separation, on a pro-rata share of each individual vesting tranche. We did not have sufficient historical exercise data to provide a reasonable basis to estimate an expected term. This program replaced the $245 of authority remaining under the Company's previously authorized share repurchase program.There were no repurchases of common stock pursuant to Board authorized share repurchase programs during the first or second quarter of 2018. We determine whether an estimated loss from a contingency should be accrued by assessing whether a loss is deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated. We assess our potential liability by analyzing our litigation and regulatory matters using available information. We develop our views on estimated losses in consultation with outside counsel handling our defense in these matters, which involves an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. Should developments in any of these matters cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs.Brazil Tax and Labor ContingenciesOur Brazilian operations are involved in various litigation matters and have received or been the subject of numerous governmental assessments related to indirect and other taxes, as well as disputes associated with former employees and contract labor. The tax matters, which comprise a significant portion of the total contingencies, principally relate to claims for taxes on the internal transfer of inventory, municipal service taxes on rentals and gross revenue taxes. We are disputing these tax matters and intend to vigorously defend our positions. Based on the opinion of legal counsel and current reserves for those matters deemed probable of loss, we do not believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will materially impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.The labor matters principally relate to claims made by former employees and contract labor for the equivalent payment of all social security and other related labor benefits, as well as consequential tax claims, as if they were regular employees. As of September 30, 2018, the total amounts related to the unreserved portion of the tax and labor contingencies, inclusive of any related interest, amounted to approximately $490, with the decrease from our December 31, 2017 balance of approximately $600, primarily related to currency and closed cases, partially offset by interest. With respect to the unreserved balance of approximately $490, the majority has been assessed by management as being remote as to the likelihood of ultimately resulting in a loss to the Company. In connection with the above proceedings, customary local regulations may require us to make escrow cash deposits or post other security of up to half of the total amount in dispute. As of September 30, 2018, we had $59 of escrow cash deposits for matters we are disputing and additional surety bonds and letters of credit of $87 and $108, respectively, which include associated indexation. There were no liens on any of our Brazilian assets as of September 30, 2018. Generally, any escrowed amounts would be refundable and any liens would be removed to the extent the matters are resolved in our favor. ; Deason v. Xerox Corp., et al. The complaint in one of the actions also names as a defendant Ursula M. Burns, the former Chief Executive Officer of Xerox. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that Xerox's directors breached their fiduciary duties in negotiating, approving, and purportedly making false and misleading disclosures about the Fuji Transaction, and that Fujifilm aided and abetted those breaches. The complaint in one of the actions further alleges that Xerox and the director defendants engaged in common law fraud by purportedly failing to disclose information about the joint venture agreements between Xerox and Fujifilm. The agreement expired by its terms on May 3, 2018 without becoming effective.On May 7, 2018, defendants filed with the Supreme Court of the State of New York, Appellate Division, First Judicial Department, notices of appeal of, and motions to stay pending appeal, the lower Court’s decision and order. Defendants also moved the appellate court for interim relief ordering that the appeal be heard on an expedited basis. At a hearing before the appellate court on May 7, 2018, the appellate court ruled that the appeals would be heard on an expedited basis and granted a partial interim stay allowing Xerox and Fujifilm to take steps to seek regulatory approvals related to the Fuji Transaction pending a ruling from the appellate court on defendants’ motions to stay pending appeal.On May 13, 2018, a settlement agreement with respect to the Deason cases was signed on behalf of plaintiff Deason, the Icahn Group and related parties, and all defendants except Fujifilm, and a memorandum of understanding regarding settlement of the putative class case was signed by all defendants except Fujifilm. Pursuant to the settlements, the settling defendants withdrew their appeal and motion to stay in the Deason cases. The settling defendants also withdrew their motion to stay in the putative class case. Fujifilm's appeal and motion for a stay of the proceedings in the first Deason case and the putative class case remain pending before the Appellate Division. The Court entered a stipulation of discontinuance as to the settling parties in the second Deason case on May 14, 2018, and agreed on June 22, 2018 to do the same in the first Deason case. Carmen Ribbe, the plaintiff in the below derivative action, and Fujifilm filed oppositions to the motion on July 10, 2018. On June 22, 2018, the Court entered an order denying a joint motion by the putative class plaintiffs and the settling defendants to dissolve the injunction in the class case as against the settling defendants, and entered an order denying Fujifilm’s motion to dissolve the injunctions in the class case and the first Deason case in their entirety.On July 16, 2018, the Court held a hearing concerning the putative class plaintiffs’ motion for preliminary approval of the settlement in the putative class case. The class has not yet been certified, and preliminary approval has not been granted.The Appellate Division heard oral argument on September 25, 2018 on Fujifilm’s appeal of the Court’s decision. On October 16, 2018, the Appellate Division entered a decision and order reversing the Court’s rulings, ordering that the claims brought against Fujifilm in the cases by Mr. Deason and the purported class be dismissed, and further ordering that the preliminary injunction of the proposed Fuji Transaction be dissolved.Xerox will vigorously defend these lawsuits to the extent that the proceedings continue as to Xerox. At this time, however, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in these lawsuits. Should developments cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome, or result in a final adverse judgment or settlement, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period in which such change in determination, judgment, or settlement occurs.2.Ribbe v. Jacobson, et al. Plaintiff made no pre-complaint demand. The Ribbe complaint contains allegations of breaches of fiduciary duty similar to those in the putative class complaint, and further alleges that Fujifilm and Centerview aided and abetted those breaches, and that the directors breached their fiduciary duties and wasted corporate assets by, among other things, agreeing to releases of claims against them and allowing certain alleged payments in settlement of the Deason and putative class cases. It seeks unspecified damages for Xerox, rescission or reformation of the Deason and putative class settlements, restitution of funds allegedly paid to the directors, injunctive relief against wrongful practices, costs and attorneys’ fees, as well as other relief. On August 13, 2018, the Xerox defendants and Fujifilm filed motions to dismiss or stay the complaint. The motions are fully briefed.On or about August 10, 2018, the parties filed a stipulated proposed order of discontinuance without prejudice as to Centerview in light of a recent agreement between Centerview and Xerox. On August 27, 2018, the Court declined to so-order the discontinuance absent Xerox’s providing notice thereof to shareholders, and ordered the parties to confer regarding notice publication.Xerox believes the lawsuit is meritless and will vigorously defend it. At this time, however, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in this litigation. Fujifilm seeks a judgment for damages to be determined at trial in an amount in excess of $1.0 billion plus punitive damages; a declaration regarding the alleged change in recommendation such that Fujifilm may terminate the transaction and Xerox must pay the $183 termination fee and other remedies; costs and attorneys’ fees; and other relief the court may deem appropriate. At a conference on September 24, 2018, the Court stayed all discovery pending resolution of Xerox’s motion to dismiss. Xerox filed its motion to dismiss on October 1, 2018.Xerox believes the lawsuit is meritless and will vigorously defend it. At this time, however, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in this litigation. Xerox Corporation provided a guaranty of contractual performance with respect to the ACS State Healthcare’s contract. The State alleges that the Defendants made false representations of material facts regarding the processes, procedures, implementation and results regarding the prior authorization of orthodontic claims. The State seeks recovery of actual damages, two times the amount of any overpayments made as a result of unlawful acts, civil penalties, pre- and post-judgment interest and all costs and attorneys’ fees. The State references the amount in controversy as exceeding hundreds of millions of dollars. The Defendants filed their Answer in June 2014 denying all allegations. In August 2017, the State of Texas filed a Second Amended Petition, which makes substantially similar allegations and seeks similar remedies as the original lawsuit. On October 23, 2017, Xerox Corporation filed a Motion for Summary Judgment seeking judgment in Xerox's favor on all claims against it. On July 2, 2018, the Court denied the State of Texas’ motion for a determination of the adequacy of its pleadings as to Xerox or in the alternative, seeking leave to amend its petition to bring additional claims against Xerox. The Defendants will continue to vigorously defend themselves in this matter. This matter is a “Conduent Liability”, as defined in the Separation and Distribution Agreement dated as of December 31, 2016 between Xerox Corporation and Conduent Incorporated, for which Conduent is required to indemnify Xerox. Plaintiff sought, among other things, unspecified monetary damages and attorneys’ fees. Other, similar lawsuits may follow. On December 28, 2016, the Court entered a stipulated order setting out a schedule for amendment of the complaint and for defendants’ response to that complaint following the Court’s appointment of lead plaintiff under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. On May 1, 2017, APERS filed an amended complaint, alleging substantially similar claims and seeking substantially similar relief, but adding David Bywater and Mary Scanlon as defendants. On June 30, 2017, defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint, and the motions were fully briefed on October 13, 2017. On March 20, 2018, the Court entered an opinion and order granting the motions, and on March 23, 2018, the Court entered a judgment of dismissal and closed the case. On April 20, 2018, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Xerox will vigorously defend against this matter. At this time, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in this litigation. Where appropriate, an obligation for such indemnifications is recorded as a liability. Other than obligations recorded as liabilities at the time of divestiture, we have not historically made significant payments for these indemnifications. Additionally, under certain of our acquisition agreements, we have provided for additional consideration to be paid to the sellers if established financial targets are achieved post-closing. We have recognized liabilities for these contingent obligations based on an estimate of the fair value of these contingencies at the time of acquisition. Under the terms of the Transaction Agreements, Fuji Xerox would have become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox, Xerox shareholders would have received a $2.5 billion special cash dividend and Xerox would have become owned 49.9% by Xerox's shareholders as of the closing date for the transaction and 50.1% by Fujifilm. As a result of the failure by Fujifilm to deliver the audited financial statements of FX by April 15, 2018 and the material deviations reflected in the audited financial statements of FX, when delivered, the Company determined that it was in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to terminate the Subscription Agreement in accordance with the termination rights set forth therein, taking into account other circumstances limiting the ability of the Company, Fujifilm and FX to consummate a transaction. On May 13, 2018, prior to entry into the Settlement Agreement discussed in Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation, the Company delivered written notice of termination of the Subscription Agreement to Fujifilm. By virtue of the termination of the Subscription Agreement, the Redemption Agreement terminated automatically. On June 25, 2018, the Company disclosed to Fujifilm that it does not currently plan to renew the Technology Agreement when it expires in 2021. In addition, the Company disclosed plans that it may sell products directly into the Asia-Pacific market with sole and exclusive use of the Xerox brand name. Xerox’s goals include sourcing products, parts and supplies from the most competitive suppliers to support the needs of its customers. Bridge Facility TerminationOn January 31, 2018, Xerox entered into a Commitment Letter with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., which provided a commitment for a $2.5 billion unsecured bridge loan facility that would have been available for Xerox to pay the special one-time cash dividend of $2.5 billion to existing shareholders of Xerox in connection with the Transaction Agreements, as described above.Concurrent with the termination of the Transaction Agreements, the commitment to provide the unsecured bridge loan facility was terminated in the second quarter 2018 and, as a result, the remaining unamortized debt issuance costs of $16 were written-off. References to “Xerox Corporation” refer to the stand-alone parent company and do not include its subsidiaries.Currency ImpactTo better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency. We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates. The adjustments identified by the IIC primarily related to misstatements at Fuji Xerox's New Zealand subsidiary as well as their Australian subsidiary and certain other adjustments. We determined that our cumulative share of the total aggregate adjustments identified as part of the investigation was approximately $90 million and affected our fiscal years 2009 through 2017. In the second quarter 2017, we revised our previously issued annual consolidated financial statements for 2015 and 2016 and the first quarter of 2017. As a result of the IIC’s findings and recommendations, Fuji Xerox began the process of implementing improved management controls, an entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries, and oversight and governance policies, practices and procedures.In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified. These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above. These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments. In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC. Fuji Xerox is committed to implementing additional measures to remediate these newly identified issues. Our recognition of 25% of Fuji Xerox’s net loss for Xerox’s first quarter 2018 included an approximately $28 million charge related to these adjustments and misstatements. We determined that the impact of the out-of-period misstatements was not material to Xerox’s consolidated financial statements for any individual prior quarter or year and the adjustment to correct the misstatements is not expected to be material to our full year 2018 results. Refer to Note 9 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.Third Quarter 2018 ReviewTotal revenue of $2.35 billion for third quarter 2018 declined 5.8% from third quarter 2017 and included a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. Post sale revenue, which primarily reflects contracted services, equipment maintenance, supplies and financing, was $1.84 billion and represented 78% of total revenue. Post sale revenue declined 6.4% from third quarter 2017 and included a 1.2-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. The decline in post sale revenue primarily reflected the continuing lower page volume trends, an ongoing competitive price environment, a lower population of devices and lower supplies revenue. The lower population of devices is partly due to the loss of market share for multiple quarters leading up to the ConnectKey launch. These declines were partially offset by higher revenues from our partner print services offering and higher paper sales in developing markets. Total equipment revenue of $511 million decreased 3.8%, including a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. The decline of total equipment revenue primarily reflected the impact of lower high-end sales and price declines of approximately 5%. These declines were partially offset by higher sales of our ConnectKey devices and demand for our recently launched Iridesse production press and higher sales through our Enterprise channel in the U.S. Total revenue of $7.30 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 declined 2.9% from the prior year period and included a 1.5-percentage point favorable impact from currency. Post sale revenue of $5.73 billion, which represented 78% of total revenue, declined 3.2% and included a 1.6-percentage point favorable impact from currency. The decline in post sale revenue primarily reflected continuing lower page volume trends, an ongoing competitive price environment, a lower population of devices, as well as the higher mix of installs of lower usage devices. These declines were partially offset by higher revenues from our Global Imaging business as well as higher paper sales. Total equipment revenue of $1.57 billion declined 1.8% including a 1.3-percentage point favorable impact from currency. The decline of total equipment revenue reflected the impact of lower OEM sales, lower revenue from our iGen and high-end black-and white systems and price declines of approximately 5%. These impacts were partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements and lower non-service retirement-related costs. The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was also partially offset by lower Transaction and related costs, net, primarily due to recoveries during third quarter 2018. The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by Transaction and related costs, net and lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox in the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was partially offset by higher Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, while adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included an out-of-period adjustment recorded during the first quarter of 2018.Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by a potential increase in the cost of our products as a result of new or incremental trade protection measures such as, increased import tariffs, import or export restrictions and requirements and the revocation or material modification of trade agreements. We are currently evaluating the impact of potentially new import tariffs on our products, which could significantly increase their cost. We are continuing to monitor developments in this area and will make efforts to mitigate the impact to the extent possible. Operating cash flow provided by continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $725 million, as compared to a use of cash of $30 million for the prior year period. Operating cash flows also increased due to improved working capital2 as well as lower other pension contributions. Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $40 million and included capital expenditures of $73 million, which were partially offset by proceeds of $32 million from the sale of non-core business assets. In prior periods, this revenue was reported within Services, maintenance and rentals. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, excluding Equipment revenue, MDS was $2,229 million and $2,194 million, respectively, representing an increase of 1.6% including a 1.6-percentage point favorable impact from currency.Total revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2018 decreased 5.8% as compared to third quarter 2017, with a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, while total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 decreased 2.9% as compared to the prior year period, with a 1.5-percentage point favorable impact from currency. These revenues are associated not only with the population of devices in the field, which is affected by installs and removals, but also by the page volumes generated by the usage of such devices, and the revenue per printed page. Post sale revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2018 decreased 6.4% as compared to third quarter 2017, with a 1.2-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, while Post sale revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 decreased 3.2% as compared to the prior year period, with a 1.6-percentage point favorable impact from currency. These declines were partially mitigated by higher revenues from our partner print services offering.◦For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 Service, maintenance and rentals revenues decreased 3.8% as compared to the prior year period, with a 1.2-percentage point favorable impact from currency. The lower population of devices is partly due to the loss of market share for multiple quarters leading up to the ConnectKey launch. •Supplies, paper and other sales includes unbundled supplies and other sales. ◦For the three months ended September 30, 2018 Supplies paper and other sales decreased 6.3% as compared to third quarter 2017, including a 1.4-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. The decline at constant currency1 was driven by lower supplies revenues and lower network integration sales, while paper increased as a result of higher sales in developing markets. The decline also included an approximate 1.3-percentage point impact from lower OEM sales.◦For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 Supplies paper and other sales decreased 2.7% as compared to the prior year period, with a 0.4-percentage point favorable impact from currency. The decline at constant currency1 was driven by lower supplies and lower network integration and software licensing sales, partially offset by higher paper sales and supplies sales within our Global Imaging business. The decline also included an approximate 1.6-percentage point impact from lower OEM sales.•Financing revenue is generated from financed equipment sale transactions. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 Financing revenue decreased 11.0% compared to third quarter 2017, with a 1.2-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, while Financing revenue decreased 8.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year period, with a 2.0-percentage point favorable impact from currency. The decrease in these revenues reflected a declining finance receivables balance due to lower financed equipment sales in prior periods. This reclassification was made to provide better transparency to our business results. Prior year amounts have been adjusted to conform to this change. Prior year amounts have been adjusted to conform to this change.Equipment sales revenue decreased 3.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to third quarter 2017, with a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, while equipment sales revenue decreased 1.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year period, with a 1.3-percentage point favorable impact from currency. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the increase was partially offset by lower revenues from indirect channels and from our Global Imaging business, while for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the increase was also attributed to higher sales from our Global Imaging business. •High-end - For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the decrease primarily reflected lower revenues from iGen in the U.S. along with lower revenues from black-and-white systems consistent with market decline trends. These declines were only partially mitigated by demand for the recently launched Iridesse production press. Install activity includes Managed Document Services and Xerox-branded products shipped to Global Imaging business. •10% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends, partially offset by increased demand in our indirect U.S. channels and our developing markets. Our reported signings mostly represent those from our Enterprise deals, as we do not currently include signings from our growing partner print services offerings or those from our Global Imaging business. The decrease in both periods reflected a lower renewal rate as a result of ongoing competitive pressure in the market. New business TCV for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased 15.7% from third quarter 2017, led by activity in Europe and included a 0.7-percentage point favorable impact from currency. New business TCV for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased 5.0% from the prior year period, with a 1.0-percentage point favorable impact from currency. Contract renewal rate for the third quarter of 2018 was 79%, compared to our full year 2017 renewal rate of 84%. •Other primarily includes our OEM business, as well as sales to and royalties from Fuji Xerox, and our licensing revenue. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $150 to $3,000.•“Mid-Range”, which includes A3 Office and Light Production devices that generally serve workgroup environments in mid to large enterprises. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $2,000 to $75,000+.•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises. 4.2% 4.2% —pts.SAG as a % of Revenue 24.8% 25.2% 0.4pts. 25.1% 25.1% —pts. 6.3% 4.6% 1.7pts. The increase was primarily driven by lower Transaction and related costs, net as well as lower Restructuring and related costs and benefits from our business transformation actions which outpaced the revenue declines.Pre-tax income margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of 6.3% increased 1.7-percentage points as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by lower Restructuring and related costs and benefits from our business transformation actions as well as lower Other expenses, net, offset partially by revenue declines and Transaction and related costs, net. Adjusted1 Operating MarginThird quarter 2018 adjusted1 operating margin of 13.1% increased 1.0-percentage points as compared to third quarter 2017, including a 0.4-percentage point favorable impact from transaction currency. The decline is also associated with lower revenues and equity income which more than offset cost productivity and savings associated with our business transformation actions. SAG of $583 million was $47 million lower than third quarter 2017, including an approximate $5 million favorable impact from currency. The reduction reflected primarily productivity and restructuring savings associated with our business transformation actions, which were partially offset by $5 million of charges related to the cancellation of certain IT projects as we continue to evaluate the returns on our IT investment. Bad debt expense of $10 million was $2 million higher than third quarter 2017.SAG as a percentage of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of 25.1% was flat as compared to the prior year period, reflecting primarily the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our business transformation actions. SAG as a percentage of revenue includes a 0.4-percentage point unfavorable impact from the exit of a real estate facility and the cancellation of certain IT projects.SAG of $1,835 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $55 million lower than the prior year period, including an approximate $24 million unfavorable impact from currency. The reduction reflected primarily productivity and restructuring savings associated with our business transformation actions. The average restructuring cost per employee was lower in third quarter 2018 as compared to 2017 primarily due to reductions in our employee severance programs particularly with respect to actions in the U.S. These costs were partially offset by $12 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives. Third quarter 2017 net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $34 million included $39 million of severance costs related to headcount of approximately 600 employees worldwide. These costs were partially offset by $5 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives. The third quarter 2017 actions impacted several functional areas, with approximately 80% focused on SAG reductions and approximately 20% focused on gross margin improvements. Restructuring and related costs were $192 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and included net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $174 million as well as $18 million of additional costs primarily related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program. Net restructuring and asset impairment charges for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 of $174 million included $196 million of severance costs related to headcount of approximately 2,100 employees worldwide and $3 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $25 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives, which included a $5 million favorable adjustment on the early termination of the lease for the corporate airplane.The restructuring reserve balance as of September 30, 2018 for all programs was $70 million, of which $67 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months. •Costs related to the settlement agreement reached with certain shareholders in the second quarter of 2018 as well as third-party legal and other related costs associated with on-going litigation resulting from the terminated combination transaction and other related shareholder actions. •$19 million of costs related to the commitment for a $2.5 billion unsecured bridge loan facility, which was terminated concurrent with the termination of the Fuji Xerox combination transaction.•Recoveries of approximately $45 million, which included insurance recoveries for litigation and related settlement costs of approximately $30 million and a settlement refund from a financial adviser, associated with the terminated combination transaction, for approximately $13 million. We continue to pursue additional recoveries from insurance carriers and other parties for costs and expenses related to the terminated transaction and shareholder litigation and therefore additional recoveries and adjustments may be recorded in future periods, when finalized. Amortization of Intangible AssetsAmortization of intangible assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $36 million was $5 million lower compared to the prior year period. On an adjusted1 basis, third quarter 2018 effective tax rate was 24.5%. This rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to the geographical mix of profits. On an adjusted1 basis, the nine months ended September 30, 2018 effective tax rate was 26.5%. This rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to the geographical mix of profits. On an adjusted1 basis, third quarter 2017 effective tax rate was 19.3%. Both rates were lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% primarily due to the redetermination of certain unrecognized tax positions upon conclusion of several audits. The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was 10.8%. On an adjusted1 basis, the nine months ended September 30, 2017 effective tax rate was 24.3%. Both rates were lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% primarily due to foreign tax credits, the redetermination of certain unrecognized tax positions upon conclusion of several audits and the geographic mix of profits. Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. The Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and implementing a territorial tax system that includes a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries.During the fourth quarter 2017, we recorded an estimated non-cash charge of $400 million reflecting our provisional estimated impact associated with the provisions of the Tax Act based on currently available information. Our estimated charge incorporated assumptions based on our current interpretation of the Tax Act as well as information available at that time and was subject to change, possibly materially, as we completed our analysis and received additional clarification and implementation guidance. The adjustment includes changes to the determination of the one-time deemed repatriation tax as well as additional re-measurement of our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities to the lower enacted statutory tax rate. The total charge of $495 million related to the Tax Act remains a provisional estimate as we continue to evaluate and consider additional impacts including those related to interpretive guidance from the U.S. Treasury and IRS as well as filing positions we may take on our 2018 U.S. Tax Return. Accordingly, additional adjustments may be recorded, possibly material, in the fourth quarter 2018 as we finalize our estimate related to the Tax Act. Our current estimate for the GILTI, FDII and Interest Limitation rules was determined to be immaterial, however we currently estimate that we are subject to BEAT. Accordingly, our third quarter and year to date 2018 effective tax rate includes the estimated impact for BEAT, which has also been incorporated into our estimated annual effective tax for 2018. Similar to the provisional charge recorded in the fourth quarter 2017 associated with the enactment of the Tax Act, the estimates for these additional provisions of the Tax Act were made based on our current interpretation of the Tax Act as well as currently available information and may change, as we complete our analysis and receive additional clarification and implementation guidance. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, equity income increased $13 million, while equity income decreased $96 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the prior year periods. Other charges include costs associated with the terminated combination transaction discussed in Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.Net Income from Continuing OperationsThird quarter 2018 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $89 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, which included an estimated non-cash charge of $95 million or $0.37 per diluted share associated with the Tax Act. See the "Income Taxes" section for further discussion. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $222 million, or $0.85 per diluted share. Third quarter 2018 adjustments to Net income include Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $224 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, which included an estimated non-cash charge of $95 million or $0.37 per diluted share associated with the Tax Act. See the "Income Taxes" section for further discussion. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $613 million, or $2.33 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.Third quarter 2017 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $176 million, or $0.67 per diluted share. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $234 million, or $0.89 per diluted share. Third quarter 2017 adjustments to Net income include Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets and non-service retirement-related costs as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $388 million, or $1.47 per diluted share. Refer to Note 4 - Divestitures in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Discontinued operations. Third quarter 2017 Net income attributable to Xerox was $179 million, or $0.68 per diluted share.Net income attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $224 million, or $0.83 per diluted share. There were no borrowings under our Credit Facility or Commercial Paper Program at September 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017, respectively. We have narrowed our full year guidance range for 2018 operating cash flows from continuing operations to be between $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion, from our original guidance of between $900 million and $1.1 billion, partly due to lower expected pension contributions. Additionally, we have lowered our full year 2018 capital expenditures expectation to be approximately $100 million, from our original expectation of $150 million. We continue to expect dividend payments to common shareholders to be approximately $260 million. 2018 reflects payments of $265 million on Senior Notes, $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $19 million of bridge facility costs. This program replaced the $245 million of authority remaining under the Company's previously authorized share repurchase program. In third quarter 2018, the Company increased its expectation for share repurchases in 2018 from an original expectation of up to $500 million of shares to an updated expectation of up to $700 million of shares. In third quarter 2018, we repurchased 10.5 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $284 million, including fees. There were no share repurchases in the first or second quarter of 2018. Through October 31, 2018, we repurchased an additional 6.9 million in shares with an aggregate cost of $182 million, including fees, for a cumulative total of 17.4 million shares at a cost of $466 million, including fees.Refer to Note 16 - Shareholders' Equity, in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our share repurchase program.Financial Risk ManagementWe are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, which could affect operating results, financial position and cash flows. We manage our exposure to these market risks through our regular operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. These derivative financial instruments are utilized to hedge economic exposures, as well as to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from shifts in market rates. We enter into limited types of derivative contracts, including interest rate swap agreements, foreign currency spot, forward and swap contracts and net purchased foreign currency options to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures. Our primary foreign currency market exposures include the Japanese Yen, Euro and U.K. Pound Sterling. The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities.We are required to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet. As permitted, certain of these derivative contracts have been designated for hedge accounting treatment. Certain of our derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are effective as economic hedges. These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility. The level of volatility will vary with the type and amount of derivative hedges outstanding, as well as fluctuations in the currency and interest rate markets during the period. The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities.By their nature, all derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market and credit risk. The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency exchange and interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. We do not believe there is significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments because these transactions are executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions. Further, our policy is to deal with counterparties having a minimum investment grade or better credit rating. Credit risk is managed through the continuous monitoring of exposures to such counterparties.The current market events have not required us to materially modify or change our financial risk management strategies with respect to our exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risk. In addition, we have discussed our financial results using the non-GAAP measures described below. We believe these non-GAAP measures allow investors to better understand the trends in our business and to better understand and compare our results. The use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Restructuring consists of costs primarily related to severance and benefits paid to employees pursuant to formal restructuring and workforce reduction plans. Asset impairment includes costs incurred for those assets sold, abandoned or made obsolete as a result of our restructuring actions, exiting from a business or other strategic business changes. Additional costs for our strategic transformation program are primarily related to the implementation of strategic actions and initiatives and include third-party professional service costs as well as one-time incremental costs. All of these costs can vary significantly in terms of amount and frequency based on the nature of the actions as well as the changing needs of the business. Accordingly, we consider these elements of our periodic retirement plan costs to be outside the operational performance of the business or legacy costs and not necessarily indicative of current or future cash flow requirements. This approach is consistent with the classification of these costs as non-operating in Other expenses, net as a result of our adoption of ASU 2017-07 - Reporting of Retirement Related Benefit Costs in 2018. These costs are considered incremental to our normal operating charges and were incurred or are expected to be incurred solely as a result of the planned combination transaction and the related shareholder settlement agreement and litigation. In addition to the costs and expenses noted as adjustments for our Adjusted Earnings measures, adjusted operating income and margin also exclude the remaining amounts included in Other expenses, net, which are primarily non-financing interest expense and certain other non-operating costs and expenses. We exclude these amounts in order to evaluate our current and past operating performance and to better understand the expected future trends in our business. SummaryManagement believes that all of these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period’s results against the corresponding prior period’s results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information we are required to disclose in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms relating to Xerox Corporation, including our consolidated subsidiaries, and was accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORSReference is made to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our 2017 Annual Report. The "Risk Factors Related to the Fujifilm Transactions" are no longer applicable as a result of the termination of the Transaction Agreements. The other Risk Factors remain applicable from our 2017 Annual Report. Repurchases may be made on the open market, or through derivative or negotiated contracts. Open-market repurchases will be made in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's Rule 10b-18, and are subject to market conditions, as well as applicable legal and other considerations.In July 2018, Registrant’s Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.101.INS XBRL Instance Document.101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Linkbase. Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q64