Yes x No oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. The words “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “expect”, “intend”, “will”, “should” and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management’s current beliefs, assumptions and expectations and are subject to a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. Given our status as a minority investor, we have limited contractual and other rights to information with respect to Fuji Xerox matters. We determined that our share of the total adjustments identified as part of the investigation was approximately $90 million and impacted our fiscal years 2009 through 2017. We revised our previously issued annual and interim consolidated financial statements for 2014, 2015 and 2016 and the first quarter of 2017. Fujifilm and Fuji Xerox continue to review Fujifilm’s oversight and governance of Fuji Xerox as well as Fuji Xerox’s oversight and governance over its businesses in light of the findings of the IIC. In 2018, in connection with the completion of audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified. These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 previously revised for the items identified by the IIC noted above. Any information on or linked from the website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-Q. Accordingly, certain information and note disclosures normally included in our annual financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted. You should read these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2017 Annual Report.In our opinion, all adjustments, which are necessary for a fair statement of financial position, operating results and cash flows for the interim periods presented, have been made. These adjustments consist of normal recurring items. The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASC Topic 606 defines a five-step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method of adoption. Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize revenue upon invoicing the customer for the large majority of our revenue. Additionally, the unit of accounting, that is, the identification of performance obligations, is consistent with prior revenue recognition practice. Accordingly, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact for the large majority of our revenues. Lastly, a significant portion of our Equipment sales are either recorded as sales-type leases or through direct sales to distributors and resellers and these revenue streams are not impacted by the adoption of ASC Topic 606. The only change of significance identified in our adoption involves a change in the classification of certain revenues that were previously reported in Services revenues. These revenues, which are approximately $50 annually, relate to certain analyst services performed in connection with the installation of equipment that are being considered part of the equipment sale performance obligation in 2018. Accordingly, in 2018 these revenues are now reported as part of Sales. As a result of this change, $9 and $20 of revenue was recorded, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods. Another change identified upon adoption was with respect to deferred contract costs, which include incremental costs of obtaining a contract and costs to fulfill a contract. Deferred contract costs had been minimal under our prior practices as most costs to obtain a contract and fulfill a contract were expensed as incurred. However, as a result of the contract cost guidance included in ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 340-40 "Contracts with Customers", upon adoption, we recorded a transition asset of $153, and a net of tax increase of $117 to Retained earnings, related to the incremental cost to obtain contracts. Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and is recognized when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer or in the period the customer benefits from the service. With the exception of our sales-type lease arrangements, our invoices to the customer, which normally have short-term payment terms, are typically aligned to the transfer of goods or as services are rendered to our customers and therefore in most cases we recognize revenue based on our right to invoice customers. As a result of the application of this practical expedient for the substantial portion of our revenue, the disclosure of the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for our services is not required.Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligations in our Document management services arrangements as well the pattern of delivery for those services. For equipment placements that require us to install the product at the customer location, revenue is normally recognized when the equipment has been delivered and installed at the customer location. Sales of customer installable products are recognized upon shipment or receipt by the customer according to the customer's shipping terms. In arrangements that include minimums, those minimums are normally set below the customer’s estimated page volumes and are not considered substantive. These agreements are sold as part of a bundled lease arrangement or through distributors and resellers. We normally account for these maintenance agreements as a single performance obligation for printing services being delivered in a series with delivery being measured by usage as billed to the customer. Accordingly, revenue on these agreements are normally recognized as billed to the customer over the term of the agreements based on page volumes. A substantial portion of our products are sold with full service maintenance agreements, accordingly, other than the product warranty obligations associated with certain of our entry level products, we do not have any significant warranty obligations, including any obligations under customer satisfaction programs. Revenues on unit-price contracts are recognized at the contractual selling prices as work is completed by the customer. We account for these arrangements as a single performance obligation for printing services being delivered in a series with delivery being measured by usage as billed to the customer. Our services contracts may also include the sale or lease of equipment and software. In these instances, we follow the policies noted for Equipment or Software Revenues and separately report the revenue associated with these performance obligations. Certain document management services arrangements may also include an embedded lease of equipment. In these instances, the revenues associated with the lease are recognized in accordance with the requirements for lease accounting. We refer to our distributor and reseller network as our two-tier distribution model. Revenues on sales to distributors and resellers are generally recognized when products are shipped to such distributors and resellers. However, revenue is only recognized when the distributor or reseller has economic substance apart from the Company such that collectability is probable and we have no further obligations related to bringing about the resale, delivery or installation of the product that would impact transfer of control. Revenue that may be subject to a reversal of revenue due to contractual terms or uncertainties is not recorded as revenue until the contractual provisions lapse or the uncertainties are resolved. Distributors and resellers participate in various rebate, price-protection, cooperative marketing and other programs, and we estimate the variable consideration associated with these programs and record those amounts as a reduction to revenue when the sales occur. Similarly, we account for our estimates of sales returns and other allowances when the sales occur based on our historical experience.In certain instances, we may provide lease financing to end-user customers who purchased equipment we sold to distributors or resellers. These arrangements also typically include an incremental, variable component for page volumes in excess of contractual page volume minimums, which are often expressed in terms of price-per-page. In applying our lease accounting methodology, we only consider the fixed payments for purposes of allocating to the relative fair value elements of the contract.Revenues under bundled arrangements are allocated considering the relative standalone selling prices of the lease and non-lease deliverables included in the bundled arrangement. Lease deliverables include the equipment, financing, maintenance and other executory costs, while non-lease deliverables generally consist of the supplies and non-maintenance services. The allocation for the lease deliverables begins by allocating revenues to the maintenance and other executory costs plus a profit thereon. These elements are generally recognized over the term of the lease as service revenue. Equipment placements included in arrangements meeting these conditions are accounted for as sales-type leases and revenue is recognized as noted above for Equipment. Equipment placements included in arrangements that do not meet these conditions are accounted for as operating leases and revenue is recognized over the term of the lease. We consider the economic life of most of our products to be five years, since this represents the most frequent contractual lease term for our principal products and only a small percentage of our leases are for original terms longer than five years. There is no significant after-market for our used equipment. We believe five years is representative of the period during which the equipment is expected to be economically usable, with normal service, for the purpose for which it is intended. Residual values are not significant.With respect to fair value, we perform an analysis of equipment fair value based on cash selling prices during the applicable period. The cash selling prices are compared to the range of values determined for our leases. The range of cash selling prices must be reasonably consistent with the lease selling prices in order for us to determine that such lease prices are indicative of fair value.Our lease pricing interest rates, which are used in determining customer payments in a bundled lease arrangement, are developed based upon a variety of factors including local prevailing rates in the marketplace and the customer’s credit history, industry and credit class. We reassess our pricing interest rates quarterly based on changes in the local prevailing rates in the marketplace. These interest rates have generally been adjusted if the rates vary by 25 basis points or more, cumulatively, from the rate last in effect. Software accessories sold in connection with our Equipment sales, as well as free-standing software sales are accounted for as separate performance obligations if determined to be material in relation to the overall arrangement. Also includes revenues from embedded operating leases, which were not significant. Our contract liabilities, which represent billings in excess of revenue recognized, are primarily related to advanced billings for maintenance and other services to be performed and were approximately $107 and $91 at June 30, 2018 and January 1, 2018, respectively. These costs are deferred and amortized on the straight-line basis over the estimated contract term, which is currently estimated to be approximately four years. We pay commensurate sales commissions upon customer renewals, therefore our amortization period is aligned to our initial contract term. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, the incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract of $23 and $40, respectively, were deferred and the related amortization was $24 and $48, respectively. The balance of deferred incremental direct costs net of accumulated amortization at June 30, 2018 was $176. This amount is expected to be amortized over its estimated period of benefit, which we currently estimate to be approximately four years. We may also incur costs associated with our services arrangements to generate or enhance resources and assets that will be used to satisfy our future performance obligations included in these arrangements. These costs are considered contract fulfillment costs. In addition, we also provide inducements to certain customers in various forms, including contractual credits, which are capitalized and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the term of the contract. This update requires the recognition of right-to-use assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases currently classified as operating leases under existing lease guidance. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition. Short term leases with a term of 12 months or less are not required to be recognized. The update also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosure of key information regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing arrangements to increase transparency and comparability among companies. The accounting for lessors does not fundamentally change except for changes to conform and align guidance to the lessee guidance as well as to the new revenue recognition guidance in ASU 2014-09. Some of these conforming changes such as those related to the definition of minimum lease payments, may potentially result in certain lease arrangements, which are currently accounted for as operating leases, being classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019. There are certain practical expedients that can be elected. On the Lessee side, a cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements. The Company has made progress in gathering the necessary data elements for the lease population and a system provider has been selected, with system configuration and implementation underway. The company is currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The Company is currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance. On the Lessor side, the Company continues to assess the potential impacts of the guidance on its lease agreements with customers, including potential changes in contracting terms, and we also expect to elect the package of practical expedients. The aggregate undiscounted value of our operating lease commitments at December 31, 2017 was approximately $450 and was primarily related to leases of facilities. Financial Instruments - Credit LossesIn June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses - Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets. The update impacts financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through Net income. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted as of January 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements. Cash FlowsIn August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows - Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. This update provides specific guidance on eight cash flow classification issues where current guidance is either unclear or does not include specific requirements. We adopted ASU 2016-15 effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018. This update includes specific guidance, that requires cash collected on beneficial interests received in a sale of receivables be classified as inflows from investing activities. Formerly, those collections were reported in operating cash flows. We reported $56 and $110 of collections on beneficial interests as operating cash inflows on the Statement of Cash Flows for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. There is no expected impact to our 2018 cash flows from this reporting change, due to the termination of all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and most arrangements in Europe and the final repurchase of previously sold finance receivables during the fourth quarter of 2017. The other seven issues noted in this update are not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Additionally, in November 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows - Restricted Cash. The update requires that amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with Cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. We adopted ASU 2016-18 effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018 and applied it retrospectively through a revision of previously reported amounts. We held $64 and $75 of restricted cash, currently reported in Other current or long-term assets at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The changes in our restricted cash balances were primarily related to our accounts receivable sales programs, which were terminated during the fourth quarter of 2017. Accordingly, this update is not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. This update changes how employers that sponsor defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans present net periodic benefit costs in the income statement. An employer is required to report the service cost component in the same line item or items as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the affected employees during the period. Other components of net retirement benefit cost are required to be presented in the income statement separately from the service cost component and outside a subtotal of Income from operations, if one is presented. We elected to report these costs as a separate item within Other expenses, net. The update also allows only the service cost component to be eligible for capitalization, when applicable. We adopted ASU 2017-07 effective for us beginning January 1, 2018. The presentation requirements of this update were required to be applied retrospectively through a revision of previously reported amounts. The requirement to limit capitalization to the service cost component was required to be applied prospectively. The adoption of this update is not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We adopted ASU 2017-01 effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018, and the adoption did not have nor is it expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Income TaxesIn October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes - Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory. This update requires recognition of the income-tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Under current GAAP, recognition of the income tax consequences for asset transfers other than inventory could not be recognized until the asset was sold to a third party. We adopted ASU 2016-16 effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018 and the adoption did not have nor is it expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Consequently, the update eliminates the stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Act and will improve the usefulness of information reported to financial statement users. However, because the update only relates to the reclassification of the income tax effects of the Tax Act, the underlying guidance that requires that the effect of a change in tax laws or rates be included in Income from continuing operations is not affected. The update also requires certain disclosures about stranded tax effects. The update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019. Early adoption of this update is permitted, including adoption in any interim period. SAB No. 118 provides for a provisional one year measurement period for entities to finalize their accounting for certain income tax effects related to the Tax Act. SAB No. SAB No. 118 requires disclosure of the reasons for incomplete accounting additional information or analysis needed, among other relevant information. During the fourth quarter 2017, we recorded an estimated non-cash provisional charge of $400 reflecting the impact associated with the provisions of the Tax Act based on currently available information. No further adjustment of that estimated provisional charge was made in the first quarter 2018, however we continue to evaluate impacts from the Tax Act and likely will do so through the expected filing of our 2017 U.S. Tax Return in the third quarter 2018. The amendments in this update expand and refine hedge accounting for both financial and non-financial risk components, aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of hedging instruments with the same income statement line item that the hedged item is reported and includes certain targeted improvements to ease the application of current guidance related to the assessment of hedge effectiveness. This update is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted at any interim period. 117 and SEC Release No. As a result of the Separation and Distribution, the financial position and results of operations of the BPO business are presented as Discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from Continuing operations for all periods presented. As more fully discussed in Note 18 - Contingencies and Litigation, various litigation matters in Brazil require us to make cash deposits to escrow as a condition of continuing the litigation. The allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable is determined principally on the basis of past collection experience as well as consideration of current economic conditions and changes in our customer collection trends. Accounts Receivable Sales Arrangements Accounts receivable sales arrangements are utilized in the normal course of business as part of our cash and liquidity management. The accounts receivable sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days. During the fourth quarter 2017, we terminated all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and all but one arrangement in Europe. The remaining facility in Europe enables us to sell accounts receivable associated with our distributor network on an ongoing basis, without recourse. Under this arrangement, we sell our entire interest in the related accounts receivable for cash and no portion of the payment is held back or deferred by the purchaser.Of the accounts receivable sold and derecognized from our balance sheet, $131 and $161 remained uncollected as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. In these instances, we ensure the sale of the receivables are bankruptcy remote and the payment made to us is without recourse. The activity associated with these arrangements is not reflected in this disclosure as payments under these arrangements have not been material and these are customer directed arrangements. Our finance receivable portfolios are primarily in the U.S., Canada and Europe. We generally establish customer credit limits and estimate the allowance for credit losses on a country or geographic basis. These customers are less susceptible to adverse effects due to shifts in economic conditions or changes in circumstance. Although we experience higher loss rates associated with this customer class, we believe the risk is somewhat mitigated by the fact that our leases are fairly well dispersed across a large and diverse customer base. In addition, the higher loss rates are largely offset by the higher rates of return we obtain with such leases. We use numerous strategies to mitigate risk including higher rates of interest, prepayments, personal guarantees, etc. Accounts in this category include customers who were downgraded during the term of the lease from investment and non-investment grade evaluation when the lease was originated. Accordingly, there is a distinct possibility for a loss of principal and interest or customer default. In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified. These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments. In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries where previous misstatements were identified. Our recognition of 25% of Fuji Xerox’s net loss for Xerox’s first quarter 2018 included an approximately $28 charge related to these adjustments and misstatements. We determined that the impact of the out-of-period misstatements was not material to Xerox’s consolidated financial statements for any individual prior quarter or year and the adjustment to correct the misstatements is not expected to be material to our full year 2018 results. The swaps were structured to hedge the fair value of related debt by converting them from fixed rate instruments to variable rate instruments. No ineffective portion was recorded to earnings for the six months ended June 30, 2018. Approximately 85% of the contracts at June 30, 2018 mature within three months, 7% mature in three to six months and 8% in six to twelve months. The associated currency exposures being hedged at June 30, 2018 were materially consistent with our year-end currency exposures. There has not been any material change in our hedging strategy.Foreign Currency Cash Flow HedgesWe designate a portion of our foreign currency derivative contracts as cash flow hedges of our foreign currency-denominated inventory purchases, sales and expenses. In addition, no amount was recorded for an underlying exposure that did not occur or was not expected to occur.As of June 30, 2018, a net after-tax gain of $2 was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss associated with our cash flow hedging activity. Net currency gains and losses include the mark-to-market adjustments of the derivatives not designated as hedging instruments and the related cost of those derivatives as well as the re-measurement of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities and are included in Other expenses, net.Note 13 – Fair Value of Financial Assets and LiabilitiesThe following table represents assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The basis for the measurement at fair value in all cases is Level 2 – Significant Other Observable Inputs. The income approach uses pricing models that rely on market observable inputs such as yield curves, currency exchange rates and forward prices, and therefore are classified as Level 2.Fair value for our deferred compensation plan investments in mutual funds is based on quoted market prices for those funds. We grant stock-based compensation awards in order to continue to attract and retain qualified employees and to better align employees' interests with those of our shareholders. The Board also approved a change in the timing of our annual grant of awards from July to April, to better align our grant date with other annual incentive compensation payments and the underlying performance period related to PSs. We grant RSUs and PSs to officers, selected executives and middle managers, and SOs to officers and selected executives only.Restricted Stock UnitsCompensation expense for RSUs is based upon the grant date market price and is recognized on a straight-line basis over a three-year graded-vesting period, based on management's estimate of the number of shares expected to vest. Prior to the April 2018 grant, RSUs vested on a three-year cliff basis from the date of grant. Shares granted during the three months ended June 30, 2018 were 1,012, with a corresponding weighted average grant date fair value of $28.03 per share. The Board retained the Revenue metric as a performance goal as well as the three-year performance period for all measures. The performance goals are independent of each other and depending on the achievement of these metrics, a recipient of a PS award is entitled to receive a number of shares equal to a percentage, ranging from 0% to 200% of the PS award granted. PSs retain the three-year cliff vesting from the date of grant. Performance-Based ComponentPSs vest contingent upon meeting pre-determined cumulative goals for revenue and free cash flow. The fair value of the performance-based component of our PSs is based upon the grant-date market price. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on management's estimate of the number of shares expected to vest. If the cumulative three-year actual results exceed the stated targets, all plan participants have the potential to earn additional shares of common stock up to a maximum overachievement of 100% of the original grant. If the stated targets are not met, any recognized compensation cost would be reversed. Shares granted during the three months ended June 30, 2018 were 667, with a corresponding weighted average grant date fair value of $28.07 per share.In connection with the April 2018 grant, the Board only approved the performance measures and corresponding weightings for the 2018 performance year. The performance measures for 2019 and 2020 were expected to be determined by the Board at a later date in connection with the closing of the Fuji Xerox Transaction, which was terminated in May 2018. The Board is expected to approve measures for the 2019 and 2020 performance periods sometime during the second half of 2018. Since the TSR portion of the PS award represents a market condition, a Monte Carlo simulation was used to determine the grant-date fair value. Shares granted during the three months ended June 30, 2018 were 333.Stock OptionsThe Board also approved the granting of SOs as part of the 2018 plan design. Except for the conversion of options relating to our acquisition of Affiliated Computer Systems in 2010, we have not issued any SOs since 2004. Similar to RSUs, SOs awarded to employees who are retirement-eligible at the date of grant, become retirement-eligible during the vesting period, or are terminated not-for-cause, vest based on service provided from the date of grant to separation, on a pro-rata share of each individual vesting tranche. We did not have sufficient historical exercise data to provide a reasonable basis to estimate an expected term. We determine whether an estimated loss from a contingency should be accrued by assessing whether a loss is deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated. We assess our potential liability by analyzing our litigation and regulatory matters using available information. We develop our views on estimated losses in consultation with outside counsel handling our defense in these matters, which involves an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. Should developments in any of these matters cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs.Brazil Tax and Labor ContingenciesOur Brazilian operations are involved in various litigation matters and have received or been the subject of numerous governmental assessments related to indirect and other taxes, as well as disputes associated with former employees and contract labor. The tax matters, which comprise a significant portion of the total contingencies, principally relate to claims for taxes on the internal transfer of inventory, municipal service taxes on rentals and gross revenue taxes. We are disputing these tax matters and intend to vigorously defend our positions. Based on the opinion of legal counsel and current reserves for those matters deemed probable of loss, we do not believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will materially impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.The labor matters principally relate to claims made by former employees and contract labor for the equivalent payment of all social security and other related labor benefits, as well as consequential tax claims, as if they were regular employees. As of June 30, 2018, the total amounts related to the unreserved portion of the tax and labor contingencies, inclusive of any related interest, amounted to approximately $510, with the decrease from our December 31, 2017 balance of approximately $600, primarily related to currency, partially offset by new cases and interest. With respect to the unreserved balance of approximately $510, the majority has been assessed by management as being remote as to the likelihood of ultimately resulting in a loss to the Company. In connection with the above proceedings, customary local regulations may require us to make escrow cash deposits or post other security of up to half of the total amount in dispute. As of June 30, 2018, we had $62 of escrow cash deposits for matters we are disputing and additional letters of credit and surety bonds of $113 and $91, respectively, which include associated indexation. There were no liens on any of our Brazilian assets as of June 30, 2018. Generally, any escrowed amounts would be refundable and any liens would be removed to the extent the matters are resolved in our favor. ; Deason v. Xerox Corp., et al. The complaint in one of the actions also names as a defendant Ursula M. Burns, the former Chief Executive Officer of Xerox. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that Xerox's directors breached their fiduciary duties in negotiating, approving, and purportedly making false and misleading disclosures about the Fuji Transaction, and that Fujifilm aided and abetted those breaches. The complaint in one of the actions further alleges that Xerox and the director defendants engaged in common law fraud by purportedly failing to disclose information about the joint venture agreements between Xerox and Fujifilm. The agreement expired by its terms on May 3, 2018 without becoming effective.On May 7, 2018, defendants filed with the Supreme Court of the State of New York, Appellate Division, First Judicial Department, notices of appeal of, and motions to stay pending appeal, the lower Court’s decision and order. Defendants also moved the appellate court for interim relief ordering that the appeal be heard on an expedited basis. At a hearing before the appellate court on May 7, 2018, the appellate court ruled that the appeals would be heard on an expedited basis and granted a partial interim stay allowing Xerox and Fujifilm to take steps to seek regulatory approvals related to the Fuji Transaction pending a ruling from the appellate court on defendants’ motions to stay pending appeal.On May 13, 2018, a settlement agreement with respect to the Deason cases was signed on behalf of plaintiff Deason, the Icahn Group and related parties, and all defendants except Fujifilm, and a memorandum of understanding regarding settlement of the putative class case was signed by all defendants except Fujifilm. Pursuant to the settlements, the settling defendants withdrew their appeal and motion to stay in the Deason cases. The settling defendants also withdrew their motion to stay in the putative class case. Fujifilm's appeal and motion for a stay of the proceedings in the first Deason case and the putative class case remain pending before the Appellate Division. The Court entered a stipulation of discontinuance as to the settling parties in the second Deason case on May 14, 2018, and agreed on June 22, 2018 to do the same in the first Deason case. Carmen Ribbe, the plaintiff in the below derivative action, and Fujifilm filed oppositions to the motion on July 10, 2018. On June 22, 2018, the Court entered an order denying a joint motion by the putative class plaintiffs and the settling defendants to dissolve the injunction in the class case as against the settling defendants, and entered an order denying Fujifilm’s motion to dissolve the injunctions in the class case and the first Deason case in their entirety. The class has not yet been certified, and preliminary approval has not been granted.Xerox will vigorously defend these lawsuits to the extent that the proceedings continue as to Xerox. At this time, however, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in these lawsuits. Should developments cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome, or result in a final adverse judgment or settlement, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period in which such change in determination, judgment, or settlement occurs.2.Ribbe v. Jacobson, et al. Plaintiff made no pre-complaint demand. It seeks unspecified damages for Xerox, rescission or reformation of the Deason and putative class settlements, restitution of funds allegedly paid to the directors, injunctive relief against wrongful practices, costs and attorneys’ fees, as well as other relief. Xerox has not yet responded to the complaint. Xerox believes the lawsuit is meritless and will vigorously defend it. At this time, however, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in this litigation. Fujifilm seeks a judgment for damages to be determined at trial in an amount in excess of $1.0 billion plus punitive damages; a declaration regarding the alleged change in recommendation such that Fujifilm may terminate the transaction and Xerox must pay the $183 termination fee and other remedies; costs and attorneys’ fees; and other relief the court may deem appropriate. Xerox has not yet responded to the complaint. Xerox believes the lawsuit is meritless and will vigorously defend it. At this time, however, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in this litigation. Xerox Corporation provided a guaranty of contractual performance with respect to the ACS State Healthcare’s contract. The State alleges that the Defendants made false representations of material facts regarding the processes, procedures, implementation and results regarding the prior authorization of orthodontic claims. The State seeks recovery of actual damages, two times the amount of any overpayments made as a result of unlawful acts, civil penalties, pre- and post-judgment interest and all costs and attorneys’ fees. The State references the amount in controversy as exceeding hundreds of millions of dollars. The Defendants filed their Answer in June 2014 denying all allegations. In August 2017, the State of Texas filed a Second Amended Petition, which makes substantially similar allegations and seeks similar remedies as the original lawsuit. On October 23, 2017, Xerox Corporation filed a Motion for Summary Judgment seeking judgment in Xerox's favor on all claims against it. On July 2, 2018, the Court denied the State of Texas’ motion for a determination of the adequacy of its pleadings as to Xerox or in the alternative, seeking leave to amend its petition to bring additional claims against Xerox. The Defendants will continue to vigorously defend themselves in this matter. This matter is a “Conduent Liability”, as defined in the Separation and Distribution Agreement dated as of December 31, 2016 between Xerox Corporation and Conduent Incorporated, for which Conduent is required to indemnify Xerox. Plaintiff sought, among other things, unspecified monetary damages and attorneys’ fees. Other, similar lawsuits may follow. On May 1, 2017, APERS filed an amended complaint, alleging substantially similar claims and seeking substantially similar relief, but adding David Bywater and Mary Scanlon as defendants. On June 30, 2017, defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint, and the motions were fully briefed on October 13, 2017. On March 20, 2018, the Court entered an opinion and order granting the motions, and on March 23, 2018, the Court entered a judgment of dismissal and closed the case. On April 20, 2018, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Xerox will vigorously defend against this matter. At this time, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in this litigation. Indemnifications We have indemnified, subject to certain deductibles and limits, the purchasers of businesses or divested assets for the occurrence of specified events under certain of our divestiture agreements. Where appropriate, an obligation for such indemnifications is recorded as a liability. Other than obligations recorded as liabilities at the time of divestiture, we have not historically made significant payments for these indemnifications. Additionally, under certain of our acquisition agreements, we have provided for additional consideration to be paid to the sellers if established financial targets are achieved post-closing. We have recognized liabilities for these contingent obligations based on an estimate of the fair value of these contingencies at the time of acquisition. Under the terms of the Transaction Agreements, Fuji Xerox would have become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox, Xerox shareholders would have received a $2.5 billion special cash dividend and Xerox would have become owned 49.9% by Xerox's shareholders as of the closing date for the transaction and 50.1% by Fujifilm. By virtue of the termination of the Subscription Agreement, the Redemption Agreement terminated automatically. On June 25, 2018, the Company disclosed to Fujifilm that it does not currently plan to renew the Technology Agreement when it expires in 2021. In addition, the Company disclosed plans that it may sell products directly into the Asia-Pacific market with sole and exclusive use of the Xerox brand name. Xerox’s goals include sourcing products, parts and supplies from the most competitive suppliers to support the needs of its customers. Bridge Facility TerminationOn January 31, 2018, Xerox entered into a Commitment Letter with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., which provided a commitment for a $2.5 billion unsecured bridge loan facility that would have been available for Xerox to pay the special one-time cash dividend of $2.5 billion to existing shareholders of Xerox in connection with the Transaction Agreements, as described above.Concurrent with the termination of the Transaction Agreements, the commitment to provide the unsecured bridge loan facility was terminated in the second quarter 2018 and, as a result, the remaining unamortized debt issuance costs of $16 were written-off. References to “Xerox Corporation” refer to the stand-alone parent company and do not include its subsidiaries.Currency ImpactTo better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency. We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates. The adjustments identified by the IIC primarily related to misstatements at Fuji Xerox's New Zealand subsidiary as well as their Australian subsidiary and certain other adjustments. We determined that our cumulative share of the total aggregate adjustments identified as part of the investigation was approximately $90 million and affected our fiscal years 2009 through 2017. In the second quarter 2017, we revised our previously issued annual consolidated financial statements for 2015 and 2016 and the first quarter of 2017. As a result of the IIC’s findings and recommendations, Fuji Xerox began the process of implementing improved management controls, an entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries, and oversight and governance policies, practices and procedures.In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified. These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above. These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments. In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC. Fuji Xerox is committed to implementing additional measures to remediate these newly identified issues. Our recognition of 25% of Fuji Xerox’s net loss for Xerox’s first quarter 2018 included an approximately $28 million charge related to these adjustments and misstatements. We determined that the impact of the out-of-period misstatements was not material to Xerox’s consolidated financial statements for any individual prior quarter or year and the adjustment to correct the misstatements is not expected to be material to our full year 2018 results. Refer to Note 9 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.Second Quarter 2018 ReviewTotal revenue of $2.51 billion for second quarter 2018 declined 2.2% from second quarter 2017 and included a 1.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency. Total revenue in 2018 has not fully benefited from the new product launch in 2017 and further increase in our share of the market is needed to improve the revenue trend. Post sale revenue, which primarily reflects contracted services, equipment maintenance, supplies and financing, was $1.95 billion and represented 78% of total revenue. Post sale revenue declined 3.1% from second quarter 2017 and included a 1.9-percentage point favorable impact from currency. Total equipment revenue of $561 million increased 0.9%, including a 1.5-percentage point favorable impact from currency. Total revenue of $4.95 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2018 declined 1.5% from the prior year period and included a 2.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency. Post sale revenue of $3.89 billion, which represented 79% of total revenue, declined 1.7% and included a 2.9-percentage point favorable impact from currency. The decline in post sale revenue primarily reflected continuing lower page volume trends, an ongoing competitive price environment, a lower population of devices, as well as the higher mix of installs of lower usage devices. These declines were partially offset by higher revenues from our Managed Document Services and Global Imaging business as well as higher paper sales revenue. Total equipment revenue of $1.06 billion declined 0.8% including a 2.5-percentage point favorable impact from currency. Excluding the impact from currency, the decline of total equipment revenue reflected the impact of lower OEM equipment sales and reflected price declines of approximately 5%. These impacts were partially offset by lower Non-service retirement-related costs and gains on the sale of non-core assets. The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was also negatively impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox and Income tax expense. The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year periods was primarily related to lower revenues, partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, as well as gains from the sale of non-core assets. The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was also impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included an out of period adjustment recorded during the first quarter 2018, as well as higher income taxes.Operating cash flow from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $451 million, as compared to $413 million for the prior year period. In prior periods, this revenue was reported within Services, maintenance and rentals. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, excluding equipment revenue, MDS was $1,505 million and $1,450 million, respectively, representing an increase of 3.8% including a 3.2-percentage point favorable impact from currency.Total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 2.2% as compared to second quarter 2017, with a 1.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency, while total revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 1.5% as compared to the prior year period, with a 2.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency. These revenues are associated with the population of devices in the field, which is affected by installs and removals, as well as the page volumes generated by the usage of such devices and the revenue per printed page. Post sale revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 3.1% as compared to second quarter 2017, with a 1.9-percentage point favorable impact from currency, while Post sale revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 1.7% as compared to the prior year period, with a 2.9-percentage point favorable impact from currency. These impacts are partially offset by higher revenues from MDS, driven by our SMB-focused channels, along with revenues from our Global Imaging business, inclusive of acquisitions.◦For the six months ended June 30, 2018 Service, maintenance and rentals revenues decreased 2.4% as compared to the prior year period, with a 2.6-percentage point favorable impact from currency. These impacts are partially offset by higher revenues from MDS, driven by our SMB-focused channels, along with revenues from our Global Imaging business, inclusive of acquisitions, and higher revenues from developing markets. •Supplies, paper and other sales includes unbundled supplies and other sales. ◦For the three months ended June 30, 2018 Supplies paper and other sales decreased 1.5% as compared to second quarter 2017, with a 0.5-percentage point favorable impact from currency. The decline at constant currency1 was driven by continued declines in OEM supplies as well as lower supplies demand consistent with a lower population of devices in the field and lower network integration and software licensing sales, partially offset by higher paper sales and supplies sales within our Global Imaging business.•Financing revenue is generated from financed equipment sale transactions. For the three months ended June 30, 2018 Financing revenue decreased 8.1% compared to second quarter 2017, with a 2.8-percentage point favorable impact from currency, while Financing revenue decreased 7.3% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year period, with a 3.5-percentage point favorable impact from currency. The decrease in these revenues reflected a declining finance receivables balance due to lower equipment sales in prior periods. This reclassification was made to provide better transparency to our business results. Prior year amounts have been adjusted to conform to this change. The modest decline at constant currency1 included an approximate 4.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from lower OEM equipment sales while it also benefited from a favorable comparison as second quarter 2017 was measurably impacted by the timing of our ConnectKey product introductions. The increase in entry reflected higher sales of our ConnectKey devices in developing markets and U.S. indirect channels. The increase in mid-range reflected higher installs of new products across North America including higher large account sales as well as higher revenues from developing markets. The decline at constant currency1 reflected an approximate 3.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from lower OEM equipment sales. The decrease in entry reflected the follow-on impact of higher sales in fourth quarter 2017 related to the expansion of our U.S. indirect channels, as well as a higher mix of low-end personal devices mainly in our developing markets, partially offset by higher sales of our ConnectKey devices. The increase in mid-range reflected higher installs of new products in all of our go-to-market sales channels, as well as higher revenues from our Global Imaging business and developing markets. The decrease in high-end primarily reflected lower revenues from iGen, as well as lower revenues from black-and-white systems consistent with market decline trends; these declines were partially mitigated by higher activity from the recently launched Iridesse production press and the Versant entry production color systems launched in the second quarter of 2017. Install activity includes Managed Document Services and Xerox-branded products shipped to Global Imaging business. •12% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends. •11% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends. Our reported signings mostly represent those from our Enterprise deals, as we do not currently include signings from our growing partner print services offerings or those from our Global Imaging business. The decrease in both periods reflected a lower renewal rate impacted by fewer large-deal renewal opportunities combined with ongoing competitive pressure in the market. New business TCV for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 2.9% from second quarter 2017, with a 0.9-percentage point favorable impact from currency, led by contracts signed in Europe. New business TCV for the six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 1.0% from the prior year period, with a 1.1-percentage point favorable impact from currency. Contract renewal rate for the second quarter of 2018 was 75%, compared to our full year 2017 renewal rate of 84%. •Other primarily includes our OEM business, as well as sales to and royalties from Fuji Xerox, and our licensing revenue. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $150 to $3,000.•“Mid-Range”, which includes A3 Office and Light Production devices that generally serve workgroup environments in mid to large enterprises. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $2,000 to $75,000+.•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises. 5.4% 3.5% 1.9pts. The decrease was primarily driven by Transaction and related costs, net as well as lower adjusted1 operating profit, partially offset by lower Other expenses, net.Pre-tax income margin for the six months ended June 30, 2018 of 5.4% increased 1.9-percentage points as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by lower Restructuring and related costs that reflected cost productivity and savings as well as lower Other expenses, net partially offset by Transaction related costs, net. The decline is also associated with lower post sale revenues and gross margins which more than offset cost productivity and savings, including savings from restructuring. The decline is also associated with lower post sale revenues and gross margins which more than offset cost productivity and savings, including savings from restructuring. These adverse impacts were more than offset by cost savings, including restructuring savings, which were partially offset by higher compensation and benefit expense as well as sales incentives. These adverse impacts were more than offset by cost savings, including restructuring savings, which were partially offset by higher compensation and benefit expense as well as expenses from Global Imaging acquisitions. These costs were partially offset by $6 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives. Second quarter 2017 net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $32 million included $49 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 500 employees worldwide and $1 million of lease cancellation charges. These costs were partially offset by $18 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives, which included a $5 million favorable adjustment on the early termination of the lease for the corporate airplane. Restructuring and related costs were $157 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and included net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $140 million as well as $17 million of additional costs primarily related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program. Net restructuring and asset impairment charges for the six months ended June 30, 2017 of $140 million included $157 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 1,500 employees worldwide and $3 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $20 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives, which included a $5 million favorable adjustment on the early termination of the lease for the corporate airplane.The restructuring reserve balance as of June 30, 2018 for all programs was $79 million, of which $76 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months. •$19 million of costs related to the commitment for a $2.5 billion unsecured bridge loan facility, which was terminated concurrent with the termination of the Fuji Xerox combination transaction.•Insurance recoveries of approximately $15 million for litigation and related settlement costs. We continue to pursue additional recoveries from insurance carriers and other parties for costs and expenses related to the terminated transaction and shareholder litigation and therefore additional recoveries and adjustments may be recorded in future periods, when finalized. As previously disclosed, in July 2018, we reached a settlement with a financial advisor for the refund of approximately $13.5 million, which will be recorded in the third quarter 2018. •Costs related to the proposed combination transaction with Fuji Xerox, which was terminated in May 2018, primarily for third-party accounting, legal, consulting and other similar types of services. Amortization of Intangible AssetsAmortization of intangible assets for the six months ended June 30, 2018 of $24 million was $5 million lower compared to the prior year period. Worldwide EmploymentWorldwide employment was approximately 34,300 as of June 30, 2018 and decreased by approximately 1,000 from December 31, 2017. Both period decreases were primarily driven by the favorable impact of higher pension contributions and asset returns in the prior year. The decrease for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was also driven by lower losses from pension settlements as compared to the prior year period.Gains on Sales of Businesses and AssetsGains on sales of businesses and assets for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 of $16 million and $32 million, respectively, reflected the sale of non-core business assets.Loss on Early Extinguishment of DebtDuring the first quarter of 2017, we recorded a $13 million loss associated with the repayment of $300 million in Senior Notes.Income TaxesSecond quarter 2018 effective tax rate was 28.6%. On an adjusted1 basis, second quarter 2018 effective tax rate was 26.7%. These rates were higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to impacts associated with the 2017 Tax Act, as discussed below, as well as the geographical mix of profits. Both rates were higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to impacts associated with the 2017 Tax Act, as discussed below, as well as the geographical mix of profits. On an adjusted1 basis, second quarter 2017 effective tax rate was 27.0%. Both rates were lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% primarily due to foreign tax credits and the geographic mix of profits. The effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was 10.7% and on an adjusted1 basis, the six months ended June 30, 2017 effective tax rate was 27.0%. Both rates were lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% primarily due to foreign tax credits and the geographic mix of profits. Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. The Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and implementing a territorial tax system that includes a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries.During the fourth quarter 2017, we recorded an estimated non-cash charge of $400 million reflecting the impact associated with the provisions of the Tax Act based on currently available information. Our estimated charge incorporates assumptions made based on our current interpretation of the Tax Act as well as currently available information and may change, possibly materially, as we complete our analysis and receive additional clarification and implementation guidance. Changes in interpretations and assumptions as well as actions we may take as a result of the Tax Act may also impact this estimated charge. The $400 million estimated provisional charge continues to be our best estimate of the impacts from the Tax Act and no further adjustment of that charge was made in the six months ended June 30, 2018. However, we continue to evaluate the impacts from the Tax Act and likely will do so through the filing of our 2017 U.S. Tax Return in the third quarter 2018. Our current estimate for the GILTI, FDII and Interest Limitation rules was determined to be immaterial, however we currently estimate that we are subject to BEAT. Accordingly, our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 includes the estimated impact for BEAT, which has also been incorporated into our estimated annual effective tax for 2018. Similar to the provisional charge recorded in the fourth quarter 2017 associated with the enactment of the Tax Act, the estimates for these additional provisions of the Tax Act were made based on our current interpretation of the Tax Act as well as currently available information and may change, as we complete our analysis and receive additional clarification and implementation guidance. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, equity income decreased $1 million and $109 million, respectively, as compared to the prior year periods. Other charges include costs associated with the terminated combination transaction discussed in Note 19 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.Net Income from Continuing OperationsSecond quarter 2018 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $112 million, or $0.42 per diluted share. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $213 million, or $0.80 per diluted share. Second quarter 2018 adjustments to Net income include Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net and Non-service retirement-related costs as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $135 million, or $0.50 per diluted share. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $391 million, or $1.48 per diluted share and includes Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net and Non-service retirement-related costs as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.Second quarter 2017 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $166 million, or $0.63 per diluted share. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $224 million, or $0.86 per diluted share. Second quarter 2017 adjustments to Net income include Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, and Non-service retirement-related costs as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $212 million, or $0.80 per diluted share. Refer to Note 4 - Divestitures in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Discontinued operations. Net IncomeSecond quarter 2018 Net income attributable to Xerox was $112 million, or $0.42 per diluted share. Second quarter 2017 Net income attributable to Xerox was $166 million, or $0.63 per diluted share.Net income attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $135 million, or $0.50 per diluted share. This compares to second quarter 2017 Other Comprehensive Income, Net Attributable to Xerox of $161 million, which included net translation adjustment gains of $204 million reflecting the strengthening of our major foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar in the second quarter 2017 partially offset by losses from the net changes in defined benefit plans of $29 million primarily due to currency impacts on net actuarial losses. This compares to Other Comprehensive Income, Net Attributable to Xerox for the six months ended June 30, 2017 of $327 million, which included net translation adjustment gains of $337 million reflecting the strengthening of our major foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar in the first half of 2017. There were no borrowings under our Credit Facility or Commercial Paper Program at June 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017, respectively. We continue to expect full year 2018 operating cash flows from continuing operations to be between $900 million and $1,100 million, capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $150 million and dividend payments to common shareholders are expected to be approximately $260 million. 2018 reflects payments of $265 million on Senior Notes, $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $19 million of bridge facility costs. Debt Activity Bridge Facility Refer to Note 19 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the bridge facility that was terminated during the second quarter of 2018.Sales of Accounts ReceivableDuring the fourth quarter 2017, we terminated all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and all but one arrangement in Europe. This program replaces the $245 million of authority remaining under the Company's previously authorized share repurchase program. The Company expects to opportunistically repurchase up to $500 million of shares during the remainder of 2018. We manage our exposure to these market risks through our regular operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. These derivative financial instruments are utilized to hedge economic exposures, as well as to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from shifts in market rates. We enter into limited types of derivative contracts, including interest rate swap agreements, foreign currency spot, forward and swap contracts and net purchased foreign currency options to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures. Our primary foreign currency market exposures include the Japanese Yen, Euro and U.K. Pound Sterling. Derivative financial instruments are held solely as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes. The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities.We are required to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet. As permitted, certain of these derivative contracts have been designated for hedge accounting treatment. Certain of our derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are effective as economic hedges. These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility. The level of volatility will vary with the type and amount of derivative hedges outstanding, as well as fluctuations in the currency and interest rate markets during the period. The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities.By their nature, all derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market and credit risk. The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency exchange and interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. We do not believe there is significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments because these transactions are executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions. Further, our policy is to deal with counterparties having a minimum investment grade or better credit rating. Credit risk is managed through the continuous monitoring of exposures to such counterparties.The current market events have not required us to materially modify or change our financial risk management strategies with respect to our exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risk. In addition, we have discussed our financial results using the non-GAAP measures described below. We believe these non-GAAP measures allow investors to better understand the trends in our business and to better understand and compare our results. The use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Restructuring consists of costs primarily related to severance and benefits paid to employees pursuant to formal restructuring and workforce reduction plans. Asset impairment includes costs incurred for those assets sold, abandoned or made obsolete as a result of our restructuring actions, exiting from a business or other strategic business changes. Additional costs for our strategic transformation program are primarily related to the implementation of strategic actions and initiatives and include third-party professional service costs as well as one-time incremental costs. All of these costs can vary significantly in terms of amount and frequency based on the nature of the actions as well as the changing needs of the business. Accordingly, we consider these elements of our periodic retirement plan costs to be outside the operational performance of the business or legacy costs and not necessarily indicative of current or future cash flow requirements. This approach is consistent with the classification of these costs as non-operating in Other expenses, net as a result of our adoption of ASU 2017-07 - Reporting of Retirement Related Benefit Costs in 2018. These costs are considered incremental to our normal operating charges and were incurred or are expected to be incurred solely as a result of the planned combination transaction and the related shareholder settlement agreement and litigation. In addition to the costs and expenses noted as adjustments for our Adjusted Earnings measures, adjusted operating income and margin also exclude the remaining amounts included in Other expenses, net, which are primarily non-financing interest expense and certain other non-operating costs and expenses. We exclude these amounts in order to evaluate our current and past operating performance and to better understand the expected future trends in our business. SummaryManagement believes that all of these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period’s results against the corresponding prior period’s results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information we are required to disclose in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms relating to Xerox Corporation, including our consolidated subsidiaries, and was accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORSReference is made to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our 2017 Annual Report. The "Risk Factors Related to the Fujifilm Transactions" are no longer applicable as a result of the termination of the Transaction Agreements. The other Risk Factors remain applicable from our 2017 Annual Report. This program replaces the $245 million of authority remaining under Registrant’s previously authorized share repurchase program. Shares of Registrant’s common stock may be repurchased on the open market, or through derivative or negotiated transactions. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.10.1 Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2018, by and among Registrant, Darwin Deason, the persons and entities listed on Schedule A thereto, William Curt Hunter, Jeffrey Jacobson, Robert J. Keegan, Charles Prince, Ann N. Reese, Stephen H. Rusckowski, Sara Martinez Tucker, Gregory Q. Brown, Joseph J. Echevarria and Cheryl Gordon Krongard. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.10.2 Memorandum of Understanding, dated May 13, 2018, by and among representatives acting on behalf of Deason, Registrant, the Existing Directors and the other parties thereto. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.10.3 Notice of termination, dated May 13, 2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.10.4 Letter Agreement dated May 14, 2018 between Registrant and John Visentin. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.10.5 Registrant’s Amendment No. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.10.1 Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2018, by and among Registrant, Darwin Deason, the persons and entities listed on Schedule A thereto, William Curt Hunter, Jeffrey Jacobson, Robert J. Keegan, Charles Prince, Ann N. Reese, Stephen H. Rusckowski, Sara Martinez Tucker, Gregory Q. Brown, Joseph J. Echevarria and Cheryl Gordon Krongard. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.10.2 Memorandum of Understanding, dated May 13, 2018, by and among representatives acting on behalf of Deason, Registrant, the Existing Directors and the other parties thereto. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.10.3 Notice of termination, dated May 13, 2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.10.4 Letter Agreement dated May 14, 2018 between Registrant and John Visentin. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018. See SEC File Number 001-04471.10.5 Registrant’s Amendment No. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.101.INS XBRL Instance Document.101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Linkbase. Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q60