EmployerIdentification No. See definition of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer”, “smaller reporting company”, and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of products that capture and move data. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, repair, and managed services, including cloud-based subscriptions. End-users of our products and services include those in retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, and education industries around the world. We provide our products and services globally through a direct sales force and an extensive network of channel partners. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.The Company reclassified $41 million of costs from Accrued liabilities to Accounts payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for the period ended December 31, 2017 to conform to the current period presentation. These results, however, are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year ending December 31, 2018. Note 2 Significant Accounting PoliciesRevenue Recognition. The average life of repair and maintenance service contracts is approximately three years. The duration of professional service arrangements ranges from a day to several weeks or months. We recognize revenues when we transfer control of promised goods or services to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The Company elects to exclude from the transaction price sales and other taxes assessed by a governmental authority and collected by the Company from a customer. The Company has determined that the adoption of ASC 606 will not have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements or results of operations. Had the Company applied the previous revenue recognition guidance, revenue would have been $1 million higher for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.See Note 3, Revenues for further information. ASU 2016-01 amends various aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure for financial instruments. It replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of credit losses. There are two transition methods available under the new standard dependent upon the type of financial instrument, either cumulative effect or prospective. The standard will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020. Earlier adoption is permitted only for annual periods after December 15, 2018. The principal difference from previous guidance is that the lease assets and lease liabilities arising from operating leases were not previously recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The recognition, measurement, presentation, and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee have not significantly changed. This standard will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2019, with early adoption 8Table of Contentspermitted. In transition, lessees and lessors are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. Management is currently assessing the impact of adoption on its consolidated financial statements; however, the impact from adoption of this ASU will be non-cash in nature and will not affect the Company’s cash position.Note 3 Revenues As prescribed in ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.Performance ObligationsWe enter into contract arrangements that may include various combinations of tangible products and services, which generally are capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. For these types of contract arrangements, we evaluate whether two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as one single contract and whether the combined or single contract has more than one performance obligation. This evaluation requires significant judgment and the decision to combine a group of contracts or separate the combined or single contract into multiple performance obligations could change the amount of revenue recorded in the reporting period. We use the accounting guidance on “capable of being distinct” and “distinct within the context of the contract” to help with the aforementioned evaluation. When the standalone selling prices are not directly observable, we estimate the standalone selling prices primarily based on the expected cost-plus margin approach. For arrangements comprised strictly of the sale of product and performance of maintenance type services where the standalone selling price of the maintenance service is not discernible, we estimate the standalone selling price of the maintenance contract through the use of the residual approach. When the residual approach cannot be applied, regional pricing, marketing strategies and business practices are evaluated and analyzed to derive the estimated standalone selling price through the use of a cost-plus margin methodology.The Company recognizes revenue when transfer of control has occurred for the goods or services sold. Control is deemed to have been transferred when the customer has the ability to direct the use of and has obtained substantially all of the remaining benefits from the goods and services sold. For each performance obligation satisfied over time, the Company measures its progress toward completion to determine the timing of revenue recognition. Assuming all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met, for products and services sold on a standalone basis, revenue is generally recognized upon shipment and by using an output method or time-based method respectively. In cases where a bundle of products and services are delivered to the customer, judgment is required to select the method of progress which best reflects the transfer of control.The Company’s remaining obligations that are greater than one year in duration relate primarily to repair and support services. The aggregated transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations related to these types of service arrangements is $448 million as of March 31, 2018. We expect to recognize these performance obligations over the approximate three-year average contract term. For some of our transactions, products are sold with a right of return, and we may also provide other rebates, price protection, or incentives, which are accounted for as variable consideration. The Company estimates the amount of variable consideration by using the expected value or the most likely amount method and reduces the revenue by those estimated amounts, only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal in the cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. Substantially all of our revenue for tangible products is recognized at a point in time, whereby revenue for services and software is predominantly recognized over time.Contract BalancesProgress on satisfying performance obligations under contracts with customers and the related billings and cash collections are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Accounts receivable, net and Prepaid expenses and other current assets. The opening and closing contract assets balances were $7 million and $6 million, respectively for the quarter ending March 31, 2018, and were recorded within Prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These contract assets result from timing differences between the billing schedule and the products and services delivery schedules, as well as, the impact from the allocation of the transaction price among performance obligations for contracts that include multiple performance obligations. Our policy is to test these contract asset balances for impairment in accordance with ASC 310 Receivables. No impairment losses have been recorded in the first quarter of 2018.Deferred revenue on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, consist of payments and billings in advance of our performance. The combined short-term and long-term Deferred revenue balances were $345 million and $334 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. For the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we recognized revenue of $65 million that was previously included in the beginning balance of deferred revenue. Our payment terms vary by the type and location of our customer and the products or services offered. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined that our contracts do not include a significant financing component.Costs to obtain a contractOur incremental direct costs of obtaining a contract, which consist of sales commissions and incremental fringe benefits, are deferred and amortized over the weighted-average contract term, consistent with the guidance in ASC 340 Other Assets and Deferred Costs. The incremental costs to obtain a contract, which were previously expensed as incurred under ASC 605, and the determination of the amortization period are derived at a portfolio level and the amortization is completed on a straight-line basis. The adoption of ASC 606 required the capitalization of these costs which resulted in an adjustment to increase retained earnings. The Company recorded $12 million to Other Long-term assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 1, 2018. The Company recognized $2 million of amortization expense related to commissions during the three-month period ended March 31, 2018. The ending balance of the deferred commissions was $12 million as of March 31, 2018. Manufactured inventory cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead. Purchased inventory cost also includes internal purchasing overhead costs.10Table of ContentsProvisions are made to reduce excess and obsolete inventories to their estimated net realizable values. The Company completed all initiatives under the Acquisition Plan as of December 31, 2017. Actions under the Productivity Plan include organizational design changes, process improvements and automation. Exit and restructuring costs are not included in the operating results of our segments as they are not deemed to impact the specific segment measures as reviewed by our Chief Operating Decision Maker and therefore are reported as a component of Corporate, eliminations. See Note 13, Segment Information.Total exit and restructuring charges of $16 million life-to-date specific to the Productivity Plan have been recorded through March 31, 2018 and relate to severance and related benefits and other expenses. Exit and restructuring charges of $4 million were recorded in the three-month period ended March 31, 2018. Note 6 Fair Value MeasurementsFinancial assets and liabilities are to be measured using inputs from three levels of the fair value hierarchy in accordance with ASC Topic 820, “Fair Value Measurements.” Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 11Table of Contentstransfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value hierarchy gives the lowest priority to Level 3 inputs.In determining fair value, the Company utilizes valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs to the extent possible. As a result, there were no transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 as of March 31, 2018 and $2 million as of December 31, 2017. See gross balance reporting in Note 7, Derivative Instruments. Note 7 Derivative InstrumentsIn the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to global market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to such risks and 12Table of Contentsmay elect to designate certain derivatives as hedging instruments under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. The Company formally documents all relationships between designated hedging instruments and hedged items as well as its risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking hedge transactions. The Company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.In accordance with ASC 815, the Company recognizes derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and measures them at fair value. The Company manages its exposure to counterparty credit risk by establishing minimum credit standards, diversifying its counterparties, and monitoring its concentrations of credit. The Company’s credit risk counterparties are commercial banks with expertise in derivative financial instruments. The Company evaluates the impact of market risk on the fair value and cash flows of its derivative and other financial instruments by considering reasonably possible changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. The Company continually monitors the creditworthiness of the customers to which it grants credit terms in the normal course of business. The terms and conditions of the Company’s credit sales are designed to mitigate or eliminate concentrations of credit risk with any single customer.Foreign Currency Exchange Risk ManagementThe Company conducts business on a multinational basis in a wide variety of foreign currencies. Exposure to market risk for changes in foreign currency exchange rates arises from euro denominated external revenues, cross-border financing activities between subsidiaries, and foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The Company realizes its objective of preserving the economic value of non-functional currency denominated cash flows by initially hedging transaction exposures 13Table of Contentswith natural offsets to the fullest extent possible and, once these opportunities have been exhausted, through foreign exchange forward and option contracts.The Company manages the exchange rate risk of anticipated euro denominated sales using put options, forward contracts, and participating forwards, all of which typically mature within twelve months of execution. The Company designates these derivative contracts as cash flow hedges. The realized gain or loss is then recorded as an adjustment to Net sales on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of March 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017, the notional amounts of the Company’s foreign exchange cash flow hedges were €387 million and €389 million, respectively. The Company has reviewed cash flow hedges for effectiveness and determined they are highly effective. The Company uses forward contracts, which are not designated as hedging instruments, to manage its exposures related to its Brazilian real, British pound, Canadian dollar, Czech koruna, Euro, Australian dollar, Swedish krona, Japanese yen, and Singapore dollars denominated net assets. These forward contracts typically mature within one-month after execution. Monetary gains and losses on these forward contracts are recorded in income each quarter and are generally offset by the transaction gains and losses related to their net asset positions. See Note 8, Long-Term Debt. As a result, the Company is exposed to market risk associated with the variable interest rate payments on both term loans.The Company manages its exposure to changes in interest rates by utilizing interest rate swaps to hedge this exposure and to achieve a desired proportion of fixed versus floating-rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. The Company does not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.In December 2017, the Company entered into an $800 million forward long-term interest rate swap agreement to lock into a fixed LIBOR interest rate base for debt facilities subject to monthly interest payments, including Term Loan A, the Revolving Credit Facility and receivables financing facility. Under the terms of the agreement, $800 million in variable-rate debt will be swapped for a fixed interest rate with net settlement terms due effective in December 2018. The changes in fair value of these swaps are not designated as hedges and are recognized immediately as Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.The Company previously had a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap, which was designated as a cash flow hedge. This swap was terminated and the hedge accounting treatment discontinued in 2014. The terminated swap has approximately $4 million remaining to be amortized through AOCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassified into net 14Table of Contentsearnings through June 2021. Approximately $2 million is expected to be amortized and expensed in 2018. There was less than $1 million expensed by the Company in the first quarter of 2018.The Company has three interest rate swaps previously entered into for the purpose of converting floating-to-fixed rate debt. The first swap was entered into with a syndicated group of commercial banks for the purpose of moving from floating-to-fixed rate debt. The second swap largely offsets the first swap, moving from fixed-to-floating rate debt. Both of these instruments are not designated as hedges with the changes in fair value recognized in Interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The third swap entered into is an interest rate swap converting floating-to-fixed rate debt which was designated as a cash flow hedge and receives hedge accounting treatment. All three swaps have a termination date in June 2021.The changes in fair value of the active swap designated as a cash flow hedge are recognized in AOCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with any ineffectiveness immediately recognized in earnings. At March 31, 2018, the Company estimated that approximately $2 million in losses on the forward interest rate swap designated as a cash flow hedge will be reclassified from AOCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets into earnings during the next four quarters.The Company’s master netting and other similar arrangements with the respective counterparties allow for net settlement under certain conditions, which are designed to reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement with the same counterparty. These fair value amounts represent the estimated value at which the Company’s lenders could trade its debt within the financial markets and does not represent the settlement value of these long-term debt liabilities to the Company. The fair value of the long-term debt will continue to vary each period based on fluctuations in market interest rates, as well as changes to the Company’s credit ratings. As of March 31, 2018, the Term Loan A interest rate was 3.51%, and the Term Loan B interest rate was 3.75%. Borrowings under Term Loan A and B bear interest at a variable rate. Term Loan B borrowings are subject to a floor of 2.75%. Interest payments are payable monthly or quarterly on Term Loan A and the Revolving Credit Facility and quarterly on Term Loan B. The Company has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on Term Loan B. The Company may make prepayments against the Term Loans, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. The Revolving Credit Facility is available for working capital and other general corporate purposes including letters of credit. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had issued letters of credit totaling $5 million. The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and the related commitments will terminate on July 27, 2021.Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of March 31, 2018, the Revolving Credit Facility had an average interest rate of 3.61%. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had borrowings of $273 million against the Revolving Credit Facility. The SPE utilizes the receivables financing facility in the normal course of business as part of its management of cash flows. Under its committed receivables financing facility, a subsidiary of the Company sells its domestically originated accounts receivables at fair value, on a revolving basis, to the SPE which was formed for the sole purpose of buying the receivables. The SPE, in turn, pledges a valid and perfected first-priority security interest in the pool of purchased receivables to a financial institution for borrowing purposes. The subsidiary retains an ownership interest in the pool of receivables that are sold to the SPE and services those receivables. Accordingly, the Company has determined that these transactions do not qualify for sale accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets, and has, therefore, accounted for the transactions as secured borrowings.At March 31, 2018, the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets included $351 million of receivables that were pledged and $86 million of associated liabilities. The receivables financing facility will mature on November 29, 2019.Borrowings under the receivables financing facility bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of March 31, 2018, the receivables financing facility had an average interest rate of 2.72% and requires monthly interest payments.Both the Revolving Credit Facility and receivables financing facility include terms and conditions that limit the incurrence of additional borrowings and require that certain financial ratios be maintained at designated levels. Advanced data capture products are warrantied from 1 to 5 years, depending on the product. Thermal printheads are warrantied for 6 months and battery-based products, such as location tags, are covered by a 90-day warranty. The Company currently believes that the outcomes of such proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on its business, cash flows, financial position, or results of operations. Any legal proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties, and the Company’s view of these matters and its potential effects may change in the future. The Company establishes an accrued liability for loss contingencies related to legal matters when the loss is both probable and estimable. In addition, for some matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, an estimate of the amount of loss or range of loss is not possible, and we may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies. A putative federal class action lawsuit, Waring v. Symbol Technologies, Inc., et al., was filed on August 16, 2005 against Symbol Technologies, Inc. and two of its former officers in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York by Robert Waring. The lead plaintiff alleges that it was damaged by the decline in the price of Symbol’s stock following certain purported corrective disclosures and seeks unspecified damages. The court has certified a class of investors that includes those that purchased Symbol common stock between March 12, 2004 and August 1, 2005. The parties completed fact and expert discovery. They also agreed to a schedule for the filing of dispositive motions, which the court so-ordered on February 12, 2018. However, by order entered on April 2, 2018, the court adjourned the deadlines for summary judgment briefing in light of the fact that the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the matter at the mediation held on March 15, 2018. On April 30, 2018, the lead plaintiff commenced the process for obtaining the court’s approval of the settlement by filing a motion for preliminary approval of the class action settlement. Additionally, in December 2017, the Company entered into a VDA with the State of Delaware. The Company has engaged an outside consultant to facilitate the assessment of the estimated liability that may result from these activities, but has not progressed sufficiently in its assessment to quantify and record a contingency reserve for any unreported unclaimed property liabilities. Note 10 Income Taxes The Company’s effective tax rates for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017 were 18.0% and 500.0%, respectively. The variance from the 2018 federal statutory rate of 21% for the current period is attributable to the benefits of lower tax rates on foreign earnings, excess stock compensation benefits, return to provision adjustments, and U.S. tax credits. These benefits are partially offset by the impacts of foreign earnings taxed in the United States, the U.S. impact of the Enterprise Acquisition, and other permanent items. The decrease in the effective income tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared with the prior year quarter is primarily the result the tax impacts of an intercompany sale of intellectual property, a rate change in Singapore, and enactment of U.S. tax reform.Pre-tax earnings outside the United States are primarily generated in the United Kingdom, Singapore, and Luxembourg, with statutory rates of 19%, 17%, and 27%, respectively. During 2017, the Company received approval from the Singapore Economic Development Board for a tax rate of 10% with the Company’s commitment to make increased investments in Singapore. The Singapore incentivized rate expires on December 31, 2018.Quarterly, Management evaluates all jurisdictions based on historical pre-tax earnings and taxable income to determine the need for valuation allowances. Based on this analysis, a valuation allowance has been recorded for any jurisdictions where, in the Company’s judgment, tax benefits will not be realized. The Company is currently undergoing U.S. Federal income tax audits for the years 2013 thru 2015, as well as UK income tax years 2012 and 2014. The tax years 2004 through 2016 remain open to examination by multiple foreign and U.S. state taxing jurisdictions. The Company continues to believe its positions are supportable, however, the Company anticipates that $22 million of uncertain tax benefits may be disallowed within the next twelve months and as such, has reflected this liability as current within the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, and requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred. Based on current operations, we estimate that the Company is subject to the Global 18Table of ContentsIntangible Low-Taxed Income and the Deduction for Foreign-Derived Intangible Income provisions of the Act. We estimate that the new limitations which defer U.S. interest deductions in excess of 30% of Adjusted Taxable Income are not applicable. These impacts are included in the calculation of our annual estimated effective tax rate.At March 31, 2018, we continue to analyze the accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act. As described below, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax. In other cases, we have not been able to make a reasonable estimate and continue to account for those items based on our existing accounting under ASC 740, Income Taxes, and the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to enactment. The Company has not recorded an adjustment to its state and local current or deferred income tax provision as a result of the Act. Guidance from state tax authorities which do not fully conform with the U.S. Internal Revenue Code is not available to allow the Company to estimate the financial statement impact at this time.Provisional amountsThe Company remeasured U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future, which is generally 21%. However, the remeasurement of deferred taxes requires further analysis regarding the state tax impacts of the remeasurement, the impact of the Act on the taxation of executive compensation arrangements, changes to tax capitalization provisions and other aspects of the Act that may impact our tax balances. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the provisional adjustment related to the remeasurement of all U.S. deferred tax balances was $35 million. For the period ended March 31, 2018, the Company has made no update to this amount.At December 31, 2017, we recorded a provisional amount for the one-time transition tax liability, resulting in an increase in income tax expense of $36 million. The Company will continue to evaluate the transition charge based on guidance issued. The transition tax is based in part on the amount of those earnings held in cash and other specified assets. The Company has recalculated the transition tax liability per this notice resulting in an $8 million increase to the previously reported tax expense. This additional expense will be included as a component of Income tax expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the period ending June 30, 2018. The Company earns a significant amount of its operating income outside of the U.S. The Company’s policy considers its U.S. investment in directly-owned foreign affiliates to be indefinitely reinvested. Under the Act, future unremitted foreign earnings will no longer be subject to tax when repatriated to its U.S. parent, but may be subject to withholding taxes of the payor affiliate country. Additionally, gains and losses on taxable dispositions of U.S.-owned foreign affiliates continue to be subject to U.S. tax.Note 11 Earnings per ShareBasic net earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares assuming dilution. Dilutive common shares outstanding is computed using the Treasury Stock method and in periods of income, reflects the additional shares that would be outstanding if dilutive stock options were exercised for common shares during the period. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and the Company defers income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transaction occurs. See Note 7, Derivative Instruments for more details.•Foreign currency translation adjustments relate to the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. The Company is required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates. The CODM reviews adjusted operating income to assess segment profitability. Adjusted operating income excludes purchase accounting adjustments, amortization, acquisition, integration and exit and restructuring costs. The reallocations relate 21Table of Contentsprimarily to information technology, marketing and human resources expenses. Prior year segment operating results have been recast for comparability with the current year presentation. For the quarter ended April 1, 2017, $7 million of operating expenses were reclassified from AIT to EVM. For the full year ended December 31, 2017, $14 million of operating expenses were reclassified from AIT to EVM. There was no impact to Consolidated results as a result of these reclassifications.Information regarding the Company’s operations by geographic area is contained in the following table. These amounts are reported in the geographic area of the destination of the final sale. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, repair, and managed services, including cloud-based subscriptions. End-users of our products and services include those in the retail, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, and education industries around the world. Our customers have traditionally benefited from proven solutions that increase productivity and improve efficiency and asset utilization. Its major product lines include barcode and card printers, supplies, services and location solutions. Its major product lines include mobile computing, data capture, RFID, and services. The Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, and requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred. The Company has reviewed the impact of provisions of the Act which took effect on January 1, 2018. Based on current operations, we estimate that the Company is subject to the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income and the Deduction for Foreign-Derived Intangible Income provisions of the Act. We estimate that the new limitations which defer U.S. interest deductions in excess of 30% of Adjusted Taxable Income are not applicable. These impacts are included in the calculation of our annual estimated effective tax rate.The Company expects that the greatest factor impacting its future effective tax rate is the federal reduction in the tax rate from 35% to 21%. Primarily due to uncertainties in the interpretation of the one-time transition tax rules and the determination of cash or other specified assets tax expense paid could differ materially from the amount disclosed in the financial statements. As permitted, the Company will update the estimates disclosed herein on a quarterly basis throughout 2018.At March 31, 2018, the Company continues to analyze the accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act. As described below, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax. In other cases, we have not been able to make a reasonable estimate and continue to account for those items based on our existing accounting under ASC 740, Income Taxes, and the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to enactment. The Company has not recorded an adjustment to its state and local current or deferred income tax provision as a result of the Act. Guidance from state tax authorities which do not fully conform with the U.S. Internal Revenue Code is not available to allow the Company to estimate the financial statement impact at this time.For the items for which we were able to determine a reasonable estimate, we recognized a provisional amount of $71 million, which was included as a component of income tax expense for the year end December 31, 2017. $35 million was attributable to remeasurement of deferred balances and the remaining $36 million was for the one-time transition tax. We continue to evaluate the transition charge based on guidance issued. The transition tax is based in part on the amount of those earnings held in cash and other specified assets. The Company has recalculated the transition tax liability per this notice resulting in an $8 million increase to the previously reported tax expense. This additional expense is not included in the current quarter’s results, however, will be included as a component of Income tax expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the period ending June 30, 2018. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. This impact is calculated by translating, for certain currencies, the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, rather than the exchange rates in effect during the current period. In addition, we exclude the impact of the company’s foreign currency hedging program in both the current and prior year periods.24Table of ContentsFirst quarter 2018 compared to first quarter 2017 Net sales increased by $112 million or 12.9% compared with the prior year quarter, reflecting growth in all four geographic regions. The increase in net sales was due primarily to increased hardware sales, most notably in EMEA and North America. The increase in hardware sales is largely attributable to higher sales of mobile computing and barcode printing products. Sales growth was also favorably impacted by currency changes, primarily in the EMEA region. Consolidated Organic Net Sales growth was 9.8% for the Company.Gross margin was 47.6% compared to the prior year quarter of 46.4%. Gross margin improved in both EVM and AIT segments primarily due to the favorable impact of currency changes, primarily in the EMEA region, and favorable business mix. Operating expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, were $321 million and $361 million, or 32.9% and 41.7% of net sales, respectively. The reduction in operating expenses was primarily due to lower amortization expense driven by certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Selling and marketing costs increased from the prior year period due to higher employee compensation costs, including the impact of higher incentive based compensation associated with financial performance. Research and development costs were higher than the prior year period, also reflecting increased compensation expense. General and administrative expenses were lower compared to the prior year period, reflecting the recovery of previously incurred legal expenses, offset partially by higher compensation related costs. Operating income increased $104 million compared to the prior year quarter. The increase was due to higher sales and gross profit and lower operating expenses.Interest expense was $11 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $41 million in the prior year quarter. The decrease over the prior year was driven by a $12 million gain from interest rate swaps, lower outstanding debt and lower interest rates. In the quarter ending March 31, 2018, the Company recognized tax expense of $24 million compared to a tax benefit of $10 million for the prior year quarter. The Company’s effective tax rates for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017 were 18.0% and 500.0%, respectively. The variance from the federal statutory rate of 21% for the three-months ended March 31, 2018 is attributable to increases from the impacts of foreign earnings taxed in the United States and limitations on executive compensation under the provisions of U.S. Tax Reform, taxation of earnings from the Enterprise Acquisition, foreign earnings taxed at higher rates, and decreases from U.S. tax credits, deductions for affiliate expenses, excess stock compensation benefits, and unbenefited foreign earnings. The prior year variance from the statutory rate is attributable to unbenefited foreign losses, benefits of foreign rates, and credits against U.S. income tax offset by the impacts of the Enterprise acquisition and state income taxes. The discrete provision for income taxes recorded in the prior year quarter results from benefits related to an intercompany sale of intellectual property, benefits from a rate decrease in Singapore, and windfall benefits related to stock compensation. Results of Operations by Segment The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the financial results of each operating business segment as detailed in Note 13, Segment Information in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. This impact is calculated by translating, for certain currencies, the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, rather than the exchange rates in effect during the current period. In addition, we exclude the impact of the company’s foreign currency hedging program in both the current and prior year periods.First quarter 2018 compared to first quarter 2017 Net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 for AIT increased $30 million or 9.3% compared to the prior year quarter. The increase in net sales was due primarily to higher sales of barcode printing products. Barcode printer growth was broad based across all major product lines and primarily attributable to the North America, EMEA, and Asia-Pacific regions. Sales growth was also favorably impacted by currency changes, primarily in the EMEA region. AIT Organic Net Sales growth for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was 6.4%.Gross margin was 52.0% for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 compared to 50.3% for the prior year quarter. Foreign currency translation impact represents the difference in results that are attributable to fluctuations in the currency exchange rates used to convert the results for businesses where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. This impact is calculated by translating, for certain currencies, the current period results at the currency exchange rates used in the comparable prior year period, rather than the exchange rates in effect during the current period. In addition, the Company excludes the impact of the company’s foreign currency hedging program in both the current and prior year periods.First quarter 2018 compared to first quarter 2017 Net sales for the quarter ending March 31, 2018 for EVM increased $81 million or 14.9% compared to prior year quarter. The increase in net sales was attributable to particularly strong sales of mobile computing products, in EMEA, North America, and LATAM regions. Sales growth was also favorably impacted by currency changes, primarily in the EMEA region. EVM Organic Net Sales growth for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was 11.7%.Gross margin for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was 45.1% compared to 44.1% in the prior year period quarter. The increase in gross margin was due primarily to changes in the favorable impact of currency changes, primarily in the EMEA region, and favorable business mix.Operating income for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, increased 66.7% due to higher sales and improved gross margin, offset partially by higher operating expenses.Liquidity and Capital Resources The primary factors that influence our liquidity include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of our revenues, cash collections from our customers, capital expenditures, repatriation of foreign cash and investments, and acquisitions of third-parties. Management believes that our existing capital resources and funds generated from operations are sufficient to meet anticipated capital requirements and service our indebtedness. This included net income of $109 million in the current quarter compared to $8 million in the prior year quarter. This was partially offset by a $32 million reduction in non-cash drivers, primarily due to a decrease in depreciation and amortization of $26 million. The Company had an outflow of working capital of $70 million, driven by lower accounts receivable inflows due to the timing of sales and the associated collections as compared to the prior year quarter and larger accrued liabilities outflows due to a higher incentive payout in the first quarter 2018 compared the same quarter last year. This 27Table of Contentswas partially offset by favorable inventory and accounts payable changes in the current year quarter as compared to the prior year quarter.•The increase in net cash used in investing activities was driven by higher capital expenditures. •The increase in net cash used in financing activities was driven by higher repayments of long-term debt of $15 million as compared to the prior year quarter. These fair value amounts represent the estimated value at which the Company’s lenders could trade its debt within the financial markets and does not represent the settlement value of these long-term debt liabilities to the Company. The fair value of the long-term debt will continue to vary each period based on fluctuations in market interest rates, as well as changes to the Company’s credit ratings. As of March 31, 2018, the Term Loan A interest rate was 3.51%, and the Term Loan B interest rate was 3.75%. Borrowings under Term Loan A and B bear interest at a variable rate. Term Loan B borrowings are subject to a floor of 2.75%. Interest payments are payable monthly or quarterly on Term Loan A and the Revolving Credit Facility and quarterly on Term Loan B. The Company has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on Term Loan B. The Company may make prepayments against the Term Loans, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. 28Table of ContentsThe Revolving Credit Facility is available for working capital and other general corporate purposes including letters of credit. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had issued letters of credit totaling $5 million. The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and the related commitments will terminate on July 27, 2021.Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of March 31, 2018, the Revolving Credit Facility had an average interest rate of 3.61%. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had borrowings of $273 million against the Revolving Credit Facility. The SPE utilizes the receivables financing facility in the normal course of business as part of its management of cash flows. Under its committed receivables financing facility, a subsidiary of the Company sells its domestically originated accounts receivables at fair value, on a revolving basis, to the SPE which was formed for the sole purpose of buying the receivables. The SPE, in turn, pledges a valid and perfected first-priority security interest in the pool of purchased receivables to a financial institution for borrowing purposes. The subsidiary retains an ownership interest in the pool of receivables that are sold to the SPE and services those receivables. Accordingly, the Company has determined that these transactions do not qualify for sale accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets, and has, therefore, accounted for the transactions as secured borrowings.At March 31, 2018, the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets included $351 million of receivables that were pledged and $86 million of associated liabilities. The receivables financing facility will mature on November 29, 2019.Borrowings under the receivables financing facility bear interest at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. As of March 31, 2018, the receivables financing facility had an average interest rate of 2.72% and requires monthly interest payments.Both the Revolving Credit Facility and receivables financing facility include terms and conditions that limit the incurrence of additional borrowings and require that certain financial ratios be maintained at designated levels. The largest customers accounted for 29.9%, 28.7%, and 20.0% of outstanding accounts receivable. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during these periods. 29Table of ContentsSafe HarborForward-looking statements contained in this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent upon a variety of important factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. When used in this document and documents referenced, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” and “expect” and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or its management are intended to identify such forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying these statements. The forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the Company’s financial outlook for the full year of 2018. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and are subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in the Company’s industry, market conditions, general domestic and international economic conditions, and other factors. We undertake no obligation, other than as may be required by law, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances, or any other reason after the date of this report. Non-GAAP measuresThe Company has provided reconciliations of the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, presented herein to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, Consolidated Organic Net Sales Growth, AIT Organic Net sales growth, and EVM Organic Net sales growth, are presented because our management has evaluated our financial results both including and excluding the adjusted items or the effects of foreign currency translation, as applicable, and believe that the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures presented provide additional perspective and insights when analyzing the core operating performance of our business from period to period and trends in our historical operating results. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with, the GAAP financial measures presented.Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskThere were no material changes in the Company’s market risk during the quarter ended March 31, 2018. For additional information on market risk, refer to the “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” section of the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.30Table of ContentsIn the normal course of business, portions of the Company’s operations are subject to fluctuations in currency values. The Company manages these risks using derivative financial instruments. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our disclosure controls as of March 31, 2018. Based on this assessment and those criteria, our management believes that, as of March 31, 2018, our disclosure controls are effective.Changes in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting During the quarter covered by this report, there have been no changes in our internal controls that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.Inherent Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls The Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the disclosure controls and procedures or the internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.31Table of ContentsPART II - OTHER INFORMATION Item 1.Legal ProceedingsSee Note 9, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.Item 1A.Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information included in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and the factors identified under “Safe Harbor” at the end of Item 2 of Part I of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. The risks described in the Annual Report are not the only risks facing the Company. There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2017, other than as described below.The impact of potential changes in customs duties and trade policies in the United States and the potential corresponding actions by other countries in which the Company does business could adversely affect our financial performance. The U.S. government has made proposals that are intended to address trade imbalances, which include encouraging increased production in the United States. Such proposals include the U.S. President’s orders in the first quarter 2018 to have U.S. government officials compile a list of products and intended increases in customs duties on imports from China. These proposals could result in increased customs duties and the renegotiation of some U.S. trade agreements. Related to such actions, certain foreign governments could institute tariffs on certain U.S. goods, such as the retaliatory tariffs proposed by China in response to the U.S. President’s proposal to increase tariffs on products imported from China. The Company imports a significant percentage of our products into the United States and China, and an increase in customs duties with respect to these imports could negatively impact the Company’s financial performance. If such customs duties are implemented, it also may cause the U.S.’ trading partners, other than China, to take actions with respect to U.S. imports or U.S. investment activities in their respective countries. Any potential changes in trade policies in the United States and the potential corresponding actions by other countries in which the Company does business could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. Given the level of uncertainty over which provisions will be enacted, the Company cannot predict with certainty the impact of the proposals.Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsTreasury SharesWe did not purchase shares of Zebra Class A common stock during the period ending March 31, 2018 as part of the purchase plan program.In November 2011, our Board authorized the purchase of up to an additional 3,000,000 shares under the purchase plan program and the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the program is 665,475.