The Company also has a multi-year product and integration strategy that will result in new, combined products or changes to the historical product offerings. As a result, it is impracticable for the Company to provide accurate historical or current reporting among its various product lines.2.Accounting PoliciesBasis of PresentationThe accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by ANSYS in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for interim financial information for commercial and industrial companies and the instructions to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, the accompanying statements do not include all of the information and footnotes required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for complete financial statements. The condensed consolidated December 31, 2017 balance sheet presented is derived from the audited December 31, 2017 balance sheet included in the most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements have been included, and all adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature. Certain items in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements of prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income, comprehensive income, cash flows, total assets or total liabilities and stockholders' equity. Operating results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period.Changes in Accounting PoliciesThe Company’s accounting policies are described in Note 2, “Accounting Policies,” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. See Note 3 for the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting this standard and a discussion of the Company's updated policies related to revenue recognition. The Company adopted ASU 2016-16 effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. Previous guidance required the tax effects from intra-entity asset transfers to be deferred until the asset was sold to a third party or recovered through use. ASU 2016-16 eliminated this deferral for all intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory. The Company prospectively adopted ASU 2017-01 effective January 1, 2018. This standard narrows the definition of a business. If substantially all the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, the acquiree is not a business. The standard also requires a business to include an input and a substantive process that significantly contributes to the 7Table of Contentsability to create outputs. This definition is expected to reduce the number of acquisitions accounted for as business combinations, which will impact the accounting treatment of certain items, including the accounting treatment of contingent consideration and transaction expenses. ASU 2016-02 requires virtually all leases, other than leases that meet the definition of a short-term lease or leases of intangible assets, to be recorded on the balance sheet with a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability. Leases will be classified as either operating or finance leases based on certain criteria. This classification will determine the timing and presentation of expenses on the income statement, as well as the presentation of related cash flows. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that reporting period. A modified retrospective transition is required upon adoption. The Company does not expect to early adopt and continues to evaluate the effect that this update will have on its financial results upon adoption. The Company's preliminary assessment is that this update may materially increase the Company's assets and liabilities upon adoption. The Company has completed the initial inventory of its leases and policy elections, and expects that it will primarily have operating leases. The current guidance requires the allowance for doubtful accounts to be estimated based on an incurred loss model, which considers past and current conditions. ASU 2016-13 requires companies to use an expected loss model that also considers reasonable and supportable forecasts of future conditions. ASU 2016-13 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early adoption is permitted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that reporting period. The standard requires a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this update will have on its financial results upon adoption.Cash and Cash EquivalentsCash and cash equivalents consist primarily of highly liquid investments such as deposits held at major banks and money market funds. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in accounting principle that will more closely align revenue recognition with the delivery of the Company’s software licenses, maintenance and services. The Company enters into contracts that include combinations of products, maintenance and services, which are accounted for as separate performance obligations with differing revenue recognition patterns.Revenue from perpetual licenses is classified as software license revenue. Software license revenue is recognized up front upon delivery of the licensed product and the utility that enables the customer to access authorization keys, provided that a signed contract has been received. The Company allocates value in bundled perpetual and PCS arrangements based on the standalone selling prices of the perpetual license and PCS. Revenue from PCS is classified as maintenance revenue and is recognized ratably over the term of the contract, as the Company satisfies the PCS performance obligation over time.In addition to perpetual licenses, the Company sells time-based lease licenses. Lease licenses are sold only as a bundled arrangement that includes the rights to a term software license and PCS. Maximizing the use of observable inputs, the Company determined that 50% of the estimated standalone selling price of the lease license is attributable to the term license and 50% is attributable to the PCS. Consistent with the perpetual sales, the license component is classified as software license revenue and recognized as revenue up front at the commencement of the lease. The PCS is classified as maintenance revenue and is recognized ratably over the term of the contract, as the Company provides the PCS benefit over time.Revenue from training, support and other services is recognized as the services are performed. For contracts in which the service consists of a single performance obligation, such as providing a training class to a customer, the Company recognizes revenue upon completion of the performance obligation. In measuring progress towards the completion of performance obligations, the Company typically utilizes output-based estimates for services with contractual billing arrangements that are not based on time and materials, and estimates output based on the total tasks completed as compared to the total tasks required for each work contract. Input-based estimates are utilized for services that involve general consultations with contractual billing arrangements based on time and materials, utilizing direct labor as the input measure.The Company also executes arrangements through independent channel partners in which the channel partners are authorized to market and distribute the Company's software products to end users of the Company's products and services in specified territories. In sales facilitated by channel partners, the channel partner bears the risk of collection from the end-user customer. The Company recognizes revenue from transactions with channel partners when the channel partner submits a purchase commitment, collectability from the channel partner is probable, a license agreement signed by the end-user customer is received and the performance obligation was met, at a point in time or over time as appropriate, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria are satisfied. Revenue from channel partner transactions is the amount remitted to the Company by the channel partners. This amount includes a fee for PCS that is compensation for providing technical enhancements and the second level of technical support to the end user, which is recognized over the period that PCS is to be provided. The Company does not offer right of return, product rotation or price protection to any of its channel partners.Non-income related taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as accounts receivable and accrued expenses. The collection and payment of these amounts are reported on a net basis in the condensed consolidated statements of income and do not impact reported revenues or expenses.9Table of ContentsThe Company warrants to its customers that its software will perform substantially as specified in the Company's current user manuals. The Company has not experienced significant claims related to software warranties beyond the scope of maintenance support, which the Company is already obligated to provide. The warranty is not sold, and cannot be purchased, separately. The warranty does not provide any type of additional service to the customer or performance obligation for the Company.Significant JudgmentsThe Company’s contracts with customers typically include promises to transfer licenses and services to a customer. Judgment is required to determine if the promises are separate performance obligations, and if so, the allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation. The Company uses the estimated standalone selling price method to allocate the transaction price for items that are not sold separately, particularly lease licenses sold with PCS. The estimated standalone selling price is determined using all information reasonably available to the Company, including market conditions and other observable inputs. The corresponding revenues are recognized as the related performance obligations are satisfied.The Company applies a practical expedient to expense sales commissions as incurred when the amortization period would have been one year or less. Certain sales commissions associated with multi-year contracts are subject to an employee service requirement. As an action beyond each party approving the contract is required to trigger these sales commissions, they are not considered incremental costs to obtain a contract and are expensed as incurred.The Company is required to adjust promised amounts of consideration for the effects of the time value of money if the timing of the payments provides the customer or the Company with a significant financing benefit. The Company considers various factors in assessing whether a financing component exists, including the duration of the contract, market interest rates and the timing of payments. The pattern of software lease license revenue recognition has changed under ASC 606. Software lease license revenue was recognized ratably over the term of the contract under the previous guidance; however, approximately 50% of the contract is recognized up front at the commencement of the lease under ASC 606. Under the previous guidance, this revenue was reported as software licenses revenue. This decrease to software licenses revenue was partially offset by the upfront recognition of the license component of lease revenue, which would have been recognized ratably over the contract under prior guidance. Consistent with the change in revenue, there was a corresponding reclassification within cost of sales. Costs incurred related to the PCS portion of lease license contracts were reflected in cost of maintenance and service. Under the previous guidance, such costs were reflected within cost of software licenses.The adoption of ASC 606 had no impact on the Company’s cash flows from operations. However, with the adoption of ASC 606, there will be an acceleration of income tax payments associated with deferred revenue and backlog credited to retained earnings and never recognized as revenue in the financial statements. Under ASC 606, the Company derived 23.7% of its total revenue through the indirect sales channel for the three months ended June 30, 2018. Under ASC 605, the Company derived 23.4% and 24.4% of its total revenue through the indirect sales channel for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.Deferred RevenueDeferred revenue consists of billings made or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from software license and maintenance agreements. The timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of billings to customers. Payment terms vary by the type and location of customer and the products or services offered. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. The Company's backlog represents installment billings for periods beyond the current quarterly billing cycle and customer orders received but not processed. The acquisition will extend the Company's portfolio into the area of optical simulation to provide comprehensive sensor solutions, covering visible and infrared light, electromagnetics and acoustics for camera, radar and lidar. The acquisition met the definition of a business under ASU 2017-01.The operating results of OPTIS have been included in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements since May 2, 2018, the date of acquisition.The assets and liabilities of OPTIS have been recorded based upon management's estimates of their fair market values as of the acquisition date. Acquired deferred revenue with a historical carrying value of $14.2 million under ASC 606, and $22.3 million under ASC 605, was ascribed a fair value of $2.5 million on the opening balance sheet. As a result, the Company's post-acquisition revenue will be less than the sum of what would have otherwise been reported by ANSYS and OPTIS absent the acquisition. Under ASC 606, the impact on reported revenue was $2.8 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018. The expected impacts on reported revenue are $3.5 million and $8.8 million for the quarter ending September 30, 2018 and for the year ending December 31, 2018, respectively. Under ASC 605, the impact on reported revenue was $4.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018. The expected impacts on reported revenue are $5.8 million and $14.5 million for the quarter ending September 30, 2018 and for the year ending December 31, 2018, respectively.13Table of ContentsFull pro forma results of operations have not been presented as the effects of the OPTIS business combination were not material to the Company's consolidated results of operations. The table presented below reflects the impact of OPTIS from the date of acquisition to June 30, 2018. The operating loss is derived from the OPTIS legal structure and does not include integration costs borne directly by ANSYS, Inc. and its non-OPTIS subsidiaries as a result of the acquisition. Diluted EPS amounts assume the issuance of common stock for all potentially dilutive equivalents outstanding. The deposits have fixed interest rates with maturity dates ranging from three months to one year.The deferred compensation plan investments in the preceding tables represent trading securities held in a rabbi trust for the benefit of the non-employee directors. These securities consist of mutual funds traded in an active market with quoted prices. As a result, the plan assets are classified as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. SAB 118 provides a measurement period that should not extend beyond one year from enactment for companies to complete the accounting under ASC 740, Income Taxes. As further discussed below, in accordance with SAB 118, the Company was able to complete final or provisional calculations for certain elements of Tax Reform, and the amounts and estimates are included in the financial statements and have been updated as additional information was gathered. For other elements, the Company was not yet able to make reasonable estimates, and therefore, those elements have not been recorded and are accounted for in accordance with ASC 740 on the basis of the tax laws in effect before Tax Reform.The Company’s accounting for the transition tax is incomplete. However, reasonable estimates of certain effects could be calculated, and a provisional adjustment of $16.0 million was recorded in the December 31, 2017 financial statements. A total transition tax obligation of $17.4 million has been recorded. Since the Company plans to elect to pay this liability over eight years, $14.3 million of the obligation is recorded in other long-term liabilities, with the balance recorded to accrued income taxes. The Company expects to complete the accounting within the prescribed measurement period. The Company’s accounting for the indefinite reinvestment assertion is incomplete. However, a reasonable estimate of book and tax basis was calculated, and the Company made a provisional assertion. In general, it is the practice and intention of the Company to repatriate previously taxed earnings and to reinvest all other earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries. As part of Tax Reform, the Company incurred U.S. tax on substantially all of the earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries as part of the transition tax. This tax increased the Company’s previously taxed earnings and allows for the repatriation of the majority of its foreign earnings without any residual U.S. federal tax. The Company does not believe that there is an excess of the financial reporting basis over the tax basis of investments in foreign subsidiaries. Accordingly, any repatriation in excess of previously taxed earnings will be a non-taxable return of basis. This assertion is subject to change as additional information is gathered to precisely compute the book and tax basis of the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries. During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, the Company repatriated $144.3 million of foreign cash. The Company has not made any measurement-period adjustments related to its indefinite reinvestment assertion during the six months ended June 30, 2018. Due to the complexity of the new GILTI tax rules, the Company is continuing to evaluate this provision of Tax Reform and its application under ASC 740. The Company’s selection of an accounting policy with respect to the new GILTI tax rules will depend, in part, on analyzing global income to determine whether future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI are expected and, if so, the anticipated impact. The Company has not made the accounting policy decision regarding whether to record deferred taxes on GILTI or expense taxes as incurred on GILTI. The current GILTI impact, which was immaterial for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, was recorded in the financial statements. The Company expects to complete the accounting for GILTI within the prescribed measurement period.Other Income Tax MattersThe Company has $29.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits, including estimated interest and penalties, that have been recorded in other long-term liabilities in accordance with income tax accounting guidance and for which the Company is uncertain as to if or when such amounts may be settled.17Table of Contents10.Geographic InformationRevenue to external customers is attributed to individual countries based upon the location of the customer. As of June 30, 2018, 4.8 million shares remained available for repurchase under the program.13.RestructuringDuring the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company initiated workforce realignment activities to reallocate resources to align with the Company's future strategic plans. The Company completed the workforce realignment activities as of September 30, 2017. The gross charges were fully paid as of March 31, 2018.19Table of Contents14.Contingencies and CommitmentsThe Company is subject to various investigations, claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, including commercial disputes, labor and employment matters, tax audits, alleged infringement of intellectual property rights and other matters. In the opinion of the Company, the resolution of pending matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties and it is possible that an unfavorable resolution of one or more of these proceedings could materially affect the Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.An Indian subsidiary of the Company has several service tax audits pending that have resulted in formal inquiries being received on transactions through mid-2012. The Company could incur tax charges and related liabilities of approximately $7.1 million. The Company can provide no assurances on whether the Microsoft case’s favorable ruling will be challenged in higher courts or on the impact that the present Microsoft case’s decision will have on the Company’s cases. The Company is uncertain as to when these service tax matters will be concluded.The Company sells software licenses and services to its customers under proprietary software license agreements. Each license agreement contains the relevant terms of the contractual arrangement with the customer, and generally includes certain provisions for indemnifying the customer against losses, expenses and liabilities from damages that are incurred by or awarded against the customer in the event the Company's software or services are found to infringe upon a patent, copyright or other proprietary right of a third party. To date, the Company has not had to reimburse any of its customers for any losses related to these indemnification provisions and no material claims asserted under these indemnification provisions are outstanding as of June 30, 2018. For several reasons, including the lack of prior material indemnification claims, the Company cannot determine the maximum amount of potential future payments, if any, related to such indemnification provisions.20Table of ContentsREPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMTo the Board of Directors and Stockholders of ANSYS, Inc. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived.Basis for Review ResultsThis interim financial information is the responsibility of the Company's management. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.We conducted our review in accordance with standards of the PCAOB. A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. For further disclosure regarding non-GAAP results, see the section titled "Non-GAAP Results" immediately preceding the section titled "Liquidity and Capital Resources. "Impact of OPTISOn May 2, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of OPTIS. The table presented below reflects the impact of OPTIS from the date of acquisition to June 30, 2018. The impacts on the Company's revenue and operating income due to currency fluctuations are reflected in the tables below. To present this information, the 2018 results for entities whose functional currency is a currency other than the U.S. Dollar were converted to U.S. Dollars at rates that were in effect for 2017, rather than the actual exchange rates in effect for 2018. Headquartered south of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the Company employed approximately 3,200 people as of June 30, 2018. ANSYS focuses on the development of open and flexible solutions that enable users to analyze designs directly on the desktop, providing a common platform for fast, efficient and cost-conscious product development, from design concept to final-stage testing and validation. The Company distributes its suite of simulation technologies through a global network of independent channel partners and direct sales offices in strategic, global locations. It is the Company’s intention to continue to maintain this hybrid sales and distribution model.The Company licenses its technology to businesses, educational institutions and governmental agencies. Growth in the Company’s revenue is affected by the strength of global economies, general business conditions, currency exchange rate 23Table of Contentsfluctuations, customer budgetary constraints and the competitive position of the Company’s products. The Company believes that the features, functionality and integrated multiphysics capabilities of its software products are as strong as they have ever been. However, the software business is generally characterized by long sales cycles. These long sales cycles increase the difficulty of predicting sales for any particular quarter. The Company makes many operational and strategic decisions based upon short- and long-term sales forecasts that are impacted not only by these long sales cycles but also by current global economic conditions. As a result, the Company believes that its overall performance is best measured by fiscal-year results rather than by quarterly results.The Company’s management considers the competition and price pressure that it faces in the short- and long-term by focusing on expanding the breadth, depth, ease of use and quality of the technologies, features, functionality and integrated multiphysics capabilities of its software products as compared to its competitors; investing in research and development to develop new and innovative products and increase the capabilities of its existing products; supplying new products and services; focusing on customer needs, training, consulting and support; and enhancing its distribution channels. The high-tech industry also showed continued momentum as companies drove innovation and investments in smart connected products, 5G and artificial intelligence. The industrial equipment industry strengthened in the second quarter, especially in the areas of pumping systems and rotating machinery, as reliability and durability remained a priority. Oil and gas in the North Sea showed signs of improvement.Note About Forward-Looking StatementsThe following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the six months ended June 30, 2018, and with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed on the Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to the fair values of stock awards, bad debts, contract revenue, acquired deferred revenue, the standalone selling prices of its products and services, the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred compensation, income taxes, uncertain tax positions, tax valuation reserves, useful lives for depreciation and amortization, and contingencies and litigation. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience, market experience, estimated future cash flows and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those set forth in forward-looking statements. Certain factors, among others, that might cause such a difference include risks and uncertainties disclosed in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1A. The adoption of ASC 606 significantly impacted the timing, allocation and presentation of lease license, perpetual license and maintenance revenue. Among the most significant changes is the PCS portion of lease license contracts now being allocated to maintenance revenue. Under the previous guidance, this revenue was reported as lease licenses revenue. This decrease to lease licenses revenue was partially offset by the upfront recognition of the license component of lease revenue, which would have been recognized ratably over the contract under the prior guidance. For further information on the impact of this adoption on the Company's results, see Note 3 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. For purposes of comparability, the changes in the following table and discussion are presented in accordance with ASC 605. The growth rate was favorably impacted by the Company’s continued investment in its global sales, support and marketing organizations. Perpetual license revenue, which is derived primarily from new sales during the quarter, increased 5.4%, or 3.7% in constant currency, as compared to the prior-year quarter. Lease license revenue increased 8.9%, or 6.9% in constant currency, as compared to the prior-year quarter. Annual maintenance contracts that were sold with new perpetual licenses, along with maintenance contracts for new perpetual licenses sold in previous quarters, contributed to maintenance revenue growth of 14.9%, or 11.5% in constant currency. Service revenue, driven primarily by a focus on service offerings that provide on-site mentorship on simulation best practices, training and expanding simulation adoption, increased 43.2%, or 40.4% in constant currency, as compared to the prior-year quarter.26Table of ContentsWith respect to revenue, on average for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, the U.S. Dollar was approximately 4.1% weaker and 4.8% weaker, when measured against the Company’s primary foreign currencies, than for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 under ASC 606 and ASC 605, respectively. The table below presents the impacts of currency fluctuations on revenue for the quarter ended June 30, 2018. Amounts in brackets indicate a net adverse impact from currency fluctuations. These contracts are generally renewed on an annual basis and have a high rate of customer renewal. In addition to the recurring revenue base associated with these contracts, a majority of customers purchasing new perpetual licenses also purchase related annual maintenance contracts. As a result of the significant recurring revenue base, the Company's lease license and maintenance revenue growth rate in any period does not necessarily correlate to the growth rate of new licenses sold during that period under ASC 605. The same is true for maintenance revenue growth under ASC 606. However, under ASC 606, lease license revenue is entirely attributed to license sales completed during the period, resulting in a higher correlation of lease license revenue growth to the growth rate of new lease license sales than that under ASC 605. To the extent the rate of customer renewal for lease and maintenance contracts is high, incremental lease contracts, and maintenance contracts sold with new perpetual licenses, will result in lease license and maintenance growth in constant currency. Conversely, if the rate of renewal for these contracts is adversely affected by economic or other factors, the Company's lease license and maintenance growth will be adversely affected.The Company has been experiencing an increased interest by some of its larger customers in enterprise agreements that often include longer-term, time-based licenses involving a larger number of the Company's software products. While these arrangements typically involve a higher overall transaction price, the revenue from these contracts is typically deferred and recognized over the period of the contract under ASC 605, resulting in increased deferred revenue and backlog. To the extent these types of contracts replace sales of perpetual licenses, there could be a near-term adverse impact on software license and maintenance revenue growth. Under ASC 606, the upfront recognition of license revenue related to these larger, multi-year transactions can result in significantly higher lease license revenue volatility. As software products, across a large variety of applications and industries, become increasingly distributed in Software-as-a-Service, cloud and other subscription environments in which the licensing approach is time-based rather than perpetual, the Company is also experiencing a shifting preference from perpetual licenses to time-based licenses across a broader spectrum of its customers, particularly in the more mature geographic markets, such as the U.S. and Japan. As a result, the Company's post-acquisition revenue will be less than the sum of what would have otherwise been reported by ANSYS and each acquiree absent the acquisitions. Under ASC 606, the impact on reported revenue was $2.9 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018. The expected impacts on reported revenue are $3.6 million and $9.5 million for the quarter ending September 30, 2018 and for the year ending December 31, 2018, respectively. Under ASC 605, the impact on revenue was $4.9 million and $0.4 million for the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The deferred revenue on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total value of annual or multi-year noncancellable software license and maintenance agreements. The Company's backlog represents installment billings for periods beyond the current quarterly billing cycle and customer orders received but not processed. The adoption of ASC 606 resulted in a reclassification of expenses within cost of sales from software licenses to maintenance and service. Amounts included in the discussion that follows are provided in constant currency and do not include the impact of the OPTIS acquisition. The impact of the OPTIS acquisition on each expense line is provided separately, where material. The impact, where material, of foreign exchange translation on each expense line is also provided separately and is inclusive of the OPTIS acquisition. The adoption of ASC 606 did not impact operating expenses. Amounts included in the discussion that follows are provided in constant currency and do not include the impact of the OPTIS acquisition. The impact of the OPTIS acquisition on each expense line is provided separately, where material. The impact, where material, of foreign exchange translation on each expense line is also provided separately and is inclusive of the OPTIS acquisition. SAB 118 provides a measurement period that should not extend beyond one year from enactment for companies to complete the accounting under ASC 740, Income Taxes. As further discussed below, in accordance with SAB 118, the Company was able to complete final or provisional calculations for certain elements of Tax Reform, and the amounts and estimates are included in the financial statements and have been updated as additional information was gathered. For other 30Table of Contentselements, the Company was not yet able to make reasonable estimates, and therefore, those elements have not been recorded and are accounted for in accordance with ASC 740 on the basis of the tax laws in effect before Tax Reform.The Company’s accounting for the transition tax is incomplete. However, reasonable estimates of certain effects could be calculated, and a provisional adjustment of $16.0 million was recorded in the December 31, 2017 financial statements. A total transition tax obligation of $17.4 million has been recorded. Since the Company plans to elect to pay this liability over 8 years, $14.3 million of the obligation is recorded in other long-term liabilities, with the balance recorded to accrued income taxes. The Company expects to complete the accounting within the prescribed measurement period. The Company’s accounting for the indefinite reinvestment assertion is incomplete. However, a reasonable estimate of book and tax basis was calculated, and the Company made a provisional assertion. In general, it is the practice and intention of the Company to repatriate previously taxed earnings and to reinvest all other earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries. As part of Tax Reform, the Company incurred U.S. tax on substantially all of the earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries as part of the transition tax. This tax increased the Company’s previously taxed earnings and allows for the repatriation of the majority of its foreign earnings without any residual U.S. federal tax. The Company does not believe that there is an excess of the financial reporting basis over the tax basis of investments in foreign subsidiaries. Accordingly, any repatriation in excess of previously taxed earnings will be a non-taxable return of basis. This assertion is subject to change as additional information is gathered to precisely compute the book and tax basis of the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries. During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, the Company repatriated $144.3 million of foreign cash. The Company has not made any measurement-period adjustments related to its indefinite reinvestment assertion during the six months ended June 30, 2018. Due to the complexity of the new GILTI tax rules, the Company is continuing to evaluate this provision of Tax Reform and its application under ASC 740. The Company’s selection of an accounting policy with respect to the new GILTI tax rules will depend, in part, on analyzing global income to determine whether future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI are expected and, if so, the anticipated impact. The Company has not made the accounting policy decision regarding whether to record deferred taxes on GILTI or expense taxes as incurred on GILTI. The current GILTI impact, which was immaterial for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, was recorded in the financial statements. The Company expects to complete the accounting for GILTI within the prescribed measurement period.The decrease in the effective tax rate from the prior year is primarily due to the reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent enacted as part of Tax Reform. For further information on the impact of this adoption on the Company's results, see Note 3 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.For purposes of comparability, the changes in the following table and discussion are presented in accordance with ASC 605. The growth rate was favorably impacted by the Company’s continued investment in its global sales, support and marketing organizations. Perpetual license revenue, which is derived primarily from new sales during the year, increased 7.5%, or 3.5% in constant currency, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017. Lease license revenue increased 8.8%, or 5.8% in constant currency, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017. Annual maintenance contracts that were sold with new perpetual licenses, along with maintenance contracts for new perpetual licenses sold in previous quarters, contributed to maintenance revenue growth of 15.3%, or 10.3% in constant currency. Service revenue, driven primarily by a focus on service offerings that provide on-site mentorship on simulation best practices, training and expanding simulation adoption, increased 34.3%, or 30.3% in constant currency, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017.32Table of ContentsWith respect to revenue, on average for the six months ended June 30, 2018, the U.S. Dollar was approximately 7.6% weaker and 7.8% weaker, when measured against the Company’s primary foreign currencies, than for the six months ended June 30, 2017 under ASC 606 and ASC 605, respectively. The table below presents the impacts of currency fluctuations on revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018. As a result, the Company's post-acquisition revenue will be less than the sum of what would have otherwise been reported by ANSYS and each acquiree absent the acquisitions. Under ASC 606, the impact on reported revenue was $3.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018. The adoption of ASC 606 resulted in a reclassification of expenses within cost of sales from software licenses to maintenance and service. Amounts included in the discussion that follows are provided in constant currency and do not include the impact of the OPTIS acquisition. The impact of the OPTIS acquisition on each expense line is provided separately, where material. The impact, where material, of foreign exchange translation on each expense line is also provided separately and is inclusive of the OPTIS acquisition. The adoption of ASC 606 did not impact operating expenses. Amounts included in the discussion that follows are provided in constant currency and do not include the impact of the OPTIS acquisition. The impact of the OPTIS acquisition on each expense line is provided separately, where material. The impact, where material, of foreign exchange translation on each expense line is also provided separately and is inclusive of the OPTIS acquisition. These financial measures exclude the impact of certain items and, therefore, have not been calculated in accordance with GAAP. A detailed explanation and a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most comparable GAAP financial measure are described below. In addition, many financial analysts that follow the Company focus on and publish both historical results and future projections based on non-GAAP financial measures. The Company believes that it is in the best interest of its investors to provide this information to analysts so that they accurately report the non-GAAP financial information. Moreover, investors have historically requested, and the Company has historically reported, these non-GAAP financial measures as a means of providing consistent and comparable information with past reports of financial results. While management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information to investors, there are limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, are not reported by all of the Company's competitors and may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures of the Company's competitors due to potential differences in the exact method of calculation. The Company compensates for these limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures as supplements to GAAP financial measures and by reviewing the reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP financial measures. Historically, the Company has consummated acquisitions in order to support its strategic and other business objectives. In accordance with the fair value provisions applicable to the accounting for business combinations, acquired deferred revenue is often recorded on the opening balance sheet at an amount that is lower than the historical carrying value. Although this acquisition accounting requirement has no impact on the Company's business or cash flow, it adversely impacts the Company's reported GAAP revenue in the reporting periods following an acquisition. In order to provide investors with financial information that facilitates comparison of both historical and future results, the Company provides non-GAAP financial measures which exclude the impact of the acquisition accounting adjustment. Amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions and its related tax impact. The Company incurs amortization of intangible assets, included in its GAAP presentation of amortization expense, related to various acquisitions it has made. Management excludes these expenses and their related tax impact for the purpose of calculating non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating profit margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company because these costs are fixed at the time of an acquisition, are then amortized over a period of several years after the acquisition and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the acquisition. Accordingly, management does not consider these expenses for purposes of evaluating the performance of the Company during the applicable time period after the acquisition, and it excludes such expenses when making decisions to allocate resources. 38Table of ContentsStock-based compensation expense and its related tax impact. The Company incurs expense related to stock-based compensation included in its GAAP presentation of cost of software licenses; cost of maintenance and service; research and development expense; and selling, general and administrative expense. This non-GAAP adjustment also includes excess payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation. Although stock-based compensation is an expense of the Company and viewed as a form of compensation, management excludes these expenses for the purpose of calculating non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating profit margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company. The annual budgeting process is the primary mechanism whereby the Company allocates resources to various initiatives and operational requirements. Additionally, the annual review by the board of directors during which it compares the Company's historical business model and profitability to the planned business model and profitability for the forthcoming year excludes the impact of stock-based compensation. In evaluating the performance of senior management and department managers, charges related to stock-based compensation are excluded from expenditure and profitability results. In fact, the Company records stock-based compensation expense into a stand-alone cost center for which no single operational manager is responsible or accountable. In this way, management is able to review, on a period-to-period basis, each manager's performance and assess financial discipline over operational expenditures without the effect of stock-based compensation. Restructuring charges and the related tax impact. The Company occasionally incurs expenses for restructuring its workforce included in its GAAP presentation of cost of software licenses; cost of maintenance and service; research and development expense; and selling, general and administrative expense. Management excludes these expenses for the purpose of calculating non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating profit margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company, as it generally does not incur these expenses as a part of its operations. Transaction costs related to business combinations. The Company incurs expenses for professional services rendered in connection with business combinations, which are included in its GAAP presentation of selling, general and administrative expense. These expenses are generally not tax-deductible. Management excludes these acquisition-related transaction expenses, derived from announced acquisitions, for the purpose of calculating non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating profit margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share when it evaluates the continuing operational performance of the Company, as it generally would not have otherwise incurred these expenses in the periods presented as a part of its operations. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Company recorded charges in its income tax provision related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, specifically for the transition tax related to unrepatriated cash. Non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, GAAP. The Company's non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP financial measures and should be read only in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Short-term investments consist primarily of deposits held by certain foreign subsidiaries of the Company with original maturities of three months to one year. As part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in the United States in 2017, the Company incurred U.S. tax on substantially all of the earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries. This tax increased the Company’s previously taxed earnings and allows for the repatriation of the majority of its foreign earnings without any residual U.S. federal tax. During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, the Company repatriated $144.3 million of foreign cash, which increased the percentage of domestic cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at June 30, 2018. The Company does not believe that there is an excess of the financial reporting basis over the tax basis of investments in foreign subsidiaries. The Company currently plans capital spending of $22 million to $27 million for the 2018 fiscal year as compared to the $19.1 million that was spent in 2017. The Company’s cash requirements in the future may also be financed through additional equity or debt financings. As of June 30, 2018, 4.8 million shares remained available for repurchase under the program.The Company's repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of the repurchase activity will depend on factors such as working capital needs, cash requirements for acquisitions, the Company's stock price, and economic and market conditions. The Company's stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.The Company continues to generate positive cash flows from operating activities and believes that the best uses of its excess cash are to invest in the business and to repurchase stock in order to both offset dilution and return capital, in excess of its requirements, to stockholders with the goal of increasing stockholder value. Additionally, the Company has in the past, and expects in the future, to acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products, services and technologies. Any future acquisitions may be funded by available cash and investments, cash generated from operations, credit facilities or the issuance of additional securities.Off-Balance-Sheet ArrangementsThe Company does not have any special-purpose entities or off-balance-sheet financing.Contractual ObligationsThere were no material changes to the Company’s significant contractual obligations during the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to those previously reported in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” within the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.42Table of ContentsCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesDuring the first quarter of 2018, the Company completed the annual impairment test for goodwill and the indefinite-lived intangible asset and determined that these assets had not been impaired as of the test date, January 1, 2018. No other events or circumstances changed during the six months ended June 30, 2018 that would indicate that the fair values of the Company's reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible asset are below their carrying amounts. The Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates are described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company has updated its revenue recognition policies in conjunction with the adoption of ASC 606 as further described in Note 3 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. No other significant changes have occurred to the Company's critical accounting policies and estimates.43Table of ContentsItem 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskInterest Income Rate Risk. Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, total interest income was $2.2 million and $4.5 million, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of highly liquid investments such as money market funds and deposits held at major banks. Short-term investments consist primarily of deposits held by certain foreign subsidiaries of the Company with original maturities of three months to one year.Foreign Currency Transaction Risk. As the Company operates in international regions, a portion of its revenue, expenses, cash, accounts receivable and payment obligations are denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates will affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is most impacted by movements in and among the Euro, Japanese Yen, South Korean Won, British Pound and U.S. Dollar.With respect to revenue, on average for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, the U.S. Dollar was approximately 4.1% weaker and 4.8% weaker, when measured against the Company’s primary foreign currencies, than for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 under ASC 606 and ASC 605, respectively. The table below presents the impacts of currency fluctuations on revenue for the quarter ended June 30, 2018. Amounts in brackets indicate a net adverse impact from currency fluctuations. The table below presents the impacts of currency fluctuations on revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018. As required by Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the Company has evaluated, with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. The membership of the Disclosure Review Committee consists of the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer; Chief Financial Officer; Vice President of Finance; General Counsel; Senior Director, Global Investor Relations; Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Customer Excellence; Vice President of Human Resources; Vice President, Corporate Marketing and Business Development; Vice President, Design and Platform Business Unit; and Vice President and General Manager of Electronics, Fluids and Mechanical. This committee is advised by external counsel, particularly on SEC-related matters. Additionally, other members of the Company’s global management team advise the committee with respect to disclosure via a sub-certification process.The Company believes, based on its knowledge, that the financial statements and other financial information included in this report fairly present, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of and for the periods presented in this report. The Company is committed to both a sound internal control environment and to good corporate governance.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate.From time to time, the Company reviews the disclosure controls and procedures and may make changes to enhance their effectiveness and to ensure that the Company’s systems evolve with its business.Changes in Internal Control. The Company is in the process of extending its internal controls to its acquisition of OPTIS. Otherwise, there were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the three months ended June 30, 2018 that materially affected, or were reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.46Table of ContentsPART II – OTHER INFORMATION Item 1.Legal ProceedingsThe Company is subject to various investigations, claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, including commercial disputes, labor and employment matters, tax audits, alleged infringement of intellectual property rights and other matters. In the opinion of the Company, the resolution of pending matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Various important factors may cause the Company’s future results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. These factors were disclosed in, but are not limited to, the items within the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1A. No material changes have occurred regarding the Company's risk factors subsequent to December 31, 2017.Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsNone.Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior SecuritiesNone.Item 4.Mine Safety DisclosuresNot applicable.Item 5.Other InformationNone.47Table of ContentsItem 6.ExhibitsExhibit No. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. ANSYS, Inc.