Table of ContentsTABLE OF CONTENTSITEM PAGEPART I.FINANCIAL INFORMATION3Item 1.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS3Item 2.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS26Item 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK40Item 4.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES40PART II.OTHER INFORMATION41Item 1.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS41Item 1A.RISK FACTORS41Item 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS41Item 3.DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES41Item 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES41Item 5.OTHER INFORMATION41Item 6.EXHIBITS422Table of ContentsPART I. BASIS OF PRESENTATIONA. Description of Business. Broadridge’s services include investor and customer communications, securities processing, and data and analytics solutions. In short, Broadridge provides important infrastructure that powers the financial services industry. With over 50 years of experience, including over 10 years as an independent public company, Broadridge provides financial services firms with advanced, dependable, scalable and cost-effective integrated solutions. A large portion of Broadridge’s Investor Communication Solutions business involves the processing and distribution of proxy materials to investors in equity securities and mutual funds, as well as the facilitation of related vote processing. ProxyEdge®, Broadridge’s innovative electronic proxy delivery and voting solution for institutional investors and financial advisors, helps ensure the participation of the largest stockholders of many companies. In addition, Broadridge provides corporations with registered proxy services as well as registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services. Broadridge provides customer communication solutions to companies in the financial services, healthcare, insurance, consumer finance, telecommunications, utilities, retail banking and other service industries. The Broadridge Communications CloudSM provides multi-channel communications delivery, communications management, information management and control and administration capabilities that enable and enhance our clients’ communications with their customers. Broadridge’s marketing ecosystem integrates data, content and technology to drive new client acquisition and cross-sell opportunities through the creation of sales and educational content, including seminars and a library of financial planning topics as well as customizable advisor websites, search engine marketing and electronic and print newsletters. Broadridge’s advisor solutions also help advisors optimize their practice management through customer and account data aggregation and reporting.Broadridge provides asset managers and retirement service providers with data-driven solutions that help its clients grow revenue, operate efficiently, and maintain compliance. Broadridge’s communications solutions provide an end-to-end platform for content management, composition, and multi-channel distribution of regulatory, marketing, and transactional information. Broadridge’s data and analytics solutions provide investment product distribution data, analytical tools, insights, and research to enable asset managers to optimize product distribution across retail and institutional channels globally. •Global Technology and Operations—Broadridge is a leading global provider of middle- and back-office securities processing solutions for capital markets, wealth management, and asset management firms. Broadridge offers advanced solutions that automate the securities transaction lifecycle, from desktop productivity tools, data aggregation, performance reporting, and portfolio management to order capture and execution, trade confirmation, 7Table of Contentsmargin, cash management, clearance and settlement, asset servicing, reference data management, reconciliations, securities financing and collateral optimization, compliance and regulatory reporting, and accounting.Broadridge’s services help financial institutions efficiently and cost-effectively consolidate their books and records, gather and service assets under management and manage risk, thereby enabling them to focus on their core business activities. Broadridge’s multi-asset, multi-market, multi-entity and multi-currency solutions support real-time global trade processing of equity, fixed income, mutual fund, foreign exchange, and exchange traded derivatives in established and emerging markets.Broadridge also provides business process outsourcing services known as Managed Services that support the operations of its buy- and sell-side clients’ businesses. These services combine Broadridge’s technology with its operations expertise to support the entire trade lifecycle, including securities clearing and settlement, reconciliations, record-keeping, asset servicing, reference data management, regulatory and performance reporting, tax and cost basis services, revenue and trade expense management and portfolio accounting.B. Consolidation and Basis of Presentation. These financial statements present the condensed consolidated position of the Company and include the entities in which the Company directly or indirectly has a controlling financial interest as well as various entities in which the Company has investments recorded under the equity method of accounting as well as certain marketable and non-marketable securities. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Amounts presented may not sum due to rounding. The results of operations reported for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for the entire year or any subsequent interim period. These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include all normal and recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation in accordance with GAAP of the Company’s financial position at September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, the results of its operations for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and its cash flows for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Effective July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. 2014-09 using the modified retrospective transition approach applied to all contracts. Under this transition approach, the Company has not restated the prior period Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements presented to the current period presentation. However, the Company has provided additional disclosures related to the amount by which each relevant fiscal 2019 financial statement line item was affected by the adoption of ASU No. 2014-09 along with explanations for significant changes. Additional information about the Company’s revenue recognition policies and the related impact of the adoption of ASU No. 2014-09 is included in Note 2, “New Accounting Pronouncements” and Note 3, “Revenue Recognition.”Effective July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. In addition, equity investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value will be recorded at cost less impairment as further adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the issuer. The Company adopted ASU No. 2016-01 using the modified-retrospective transition approach by recording the cumulative effect of previously unrecognized gains or losses on publicly traded equity securities to retained earnings as of July 1, 2018. The provisions of ASU No. 2016-01 relative to equity investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value have been applied prospectively. The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have not been revised for periods prior to July 1, 2018. The impact of adopting ASU No. 2016-01 resulted in a reclassification of less than $0.1 million in unrealized gains, net from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings as of July 1, 2018. Effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, the Company adopted ASU No. All prior period information has been conformed to the current period presentation.C. Securities. Securities are non-derivatives that are reflected in Other non-current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, unless management intends to dispose of the investment within twelve months of the end of the reporting period, in which case they are reflected in Other current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. These investments are in entities over which the Company does not have control, joint control, or significant influence. Securities that have a readily determinable fair value are carried at fair value. Securities without a readily determinable fair value are initially recognized at cost and subsequently carried at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in transactions for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer, such as subsequent capital raising transactions. Changes in the value of securities with or without a readily determinable fair value are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings. In determining whether a security without a readily determinable fair value is impaired, management considers qualitative factors to identify an impairment including the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer.D. Use of Estimates. The preparation of these financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes thereto. These estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events, historical experience, actions that the Company may undertake in the future and on various other assumptions and judgment that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Accordingly, actual results could differ from those estimates. E. Subsequent Events. In preparing the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has reviewed events that have occurred after September 30, 2018 through the date of issuance of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. During this period, the Company did not have any subsequent events for disclosure. NOTE 2. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTSIn February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. ASU 2018-02 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company early adopted ASU 2018-02 as of July 1, 2018, and the adoption of this guidance resulted in an increase to retained earnings of $1.5 million. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. ASU No. ASU No. 2017-01 is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, to be applied on a prospective basis. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-10 “Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases” and ASU No. Under ASU No. 2016-02, as amended, all lease arrangements, with certain limited exceptions, exceeding a twelve-month term must now be recognized as assets and liabilities on the balance sheet of the lessee by recording a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease obligation generally equal to the present value of the future lease payments over the lease term. ASU No. 2016-02, as amended, also contains certain additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements so that users can understand more about the nature of an entity’s leasing activities, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. ASU No. 2016-02, as amended, is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and can be adopted using either a modified retrospective basis which requires adjustment to all comparative periods presented in the consolidated financial statements, or by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings at the date of initial application. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU No. 2016-02, as amended, on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.Effective July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. 2014-09. ASU No. 2014-09 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most prior revenue 9Table of Contentsrecognition guidance, including industry specific requirements. It also includes guidance on accounting for the incremental costs of obtaining and costs incurred to fulfill a contract with a customer. The core principle of the revenue model is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. As a result, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. ASU No. 2014-09 also requires certain enhanced disclosures, including disclosures on the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows from contracts with customers. The Company identified certain impacts of ASU No. 2014-09 on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Specifically, under ASU No. 2014-09, the Company now capitalizes certain sales commissions, and it capitalizes certain additional costs that are part of setting up or converting a client’s systems to function with the Company’s technology, both of which were previously expensed. Additionally, the Company now recognizes proxy revenue primarily at the time of proxy materials distribution to the client’s shareholders rather than on the date of the client’s shareholder meeting, which is typically 30 days after the proxy materials distribution. Other changes to the timing of revenue recognition include deferral of revenue from certain transaction processing platform enhancements as well as acceleration of revenue from certain multi-year software license arrangements that are currently recognized over the term of the software subscription. The Company adopted ASU No. 2014-09 using the modified retrospective transition method applied to all contracts, which resulted in a cumulative-effect increase in the opening balance of retained earnings of $101.3 million, most notably related to the deferral of incremental sales commissions incurred in obtaining contracts in prior periods. Under this transition approach, the Company has not restated the prior period Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements presented. However, the Company has provided additional disclosures related to the amount by which each relevant fiscal 2019 financial statement line item was affected by adoption of ASU No. 2014-09 and explanations for significant changes. See Note 3, “Revenue Recognition” for additional information about the Company’s revenue recognition policies and the related impact of the Company’s adoption of ASU No. 2014-09.NOTE 3. REVENUE RECOGNITIONSignificant Accounting PolicyASU No. 2014-09 outlines a single comprehensive model to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The core principle is that an entity recognizes revenue to reflect the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The Company’s revenues from clients are primarily generated from fees for providing investor communications and technology-enabled services and solutions. The Company typically enters into agreements with clients to provide services on a fee for service basis. Fees received for processing and distributing investor communications are generally variably priced and recognized as revenue over time as the Company provides the services to clients based on the number of units processed, which coincides with the pattern of value transfer to the client. Broadridge works directly with the Issuers and mutual funds to resolve any issues that may arise. As such, Issuers and mutual funds are viewed as the customer of the Company’s services. Fees for the Company’s investor communications services arrangements are typically billed and paid on a monthly basis following the delivery of the services. These services may be billed in a variety of payment frequencies depending on the specific arrangement. 10Table of Contents•Global Technology and Operations—Revenues are generated primarily from fees for transaction processing and related services. Revenue is recognized over time as the Company satisfies its performance obligation by delivering services to the client. These services are generally provided under variable priced arrangements based on volume of service and can include minimum monthly usage fees. Client service agreements often include up-front consideration in addition to the recurring fee for transaction processing. Up-front implementation fees, as well as certain enhancements to existing technology platforms, are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the service term of the contract which corresponds to the timing of transfer of value to the client that commences after client acceptance when the processing term begins. In addition, revenue is also generated from the fulfillment of professional services engagements which are generally priced on a time and materials or fixed price basis, and are recognized as the services are provided to the client which corresponds to the timing of transfer of value to the client. If these criteria are not met, the promised goods or services are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. Transaction PriceOnce separate performance obligations are determined, the transaction price is allocated to the individual performance obligations. If the contracted prices reflect the relative standalone selling prices for the individual performance obligations, no allocations are made. Otherwise, the Company uses the relative selling price method to allocate the transaction price, obtained from sources such as the observable price of a good or service when the Company sells that good or service separately in similar circumstances and to similar clients. If such evidence is unavailable, the Company uses the best estimate of the selling price, which includes various internal factors such as pricing strategy and market factors. A significant portion of the Company’s performance obligations are generated from transactions with volume based fees and includes services that are delivered at the same time. The Company recognizes revenue related to these arrangements over time as the services are provided to the client. While many of the Company’s contracts contain some component of variable consideration, the Company only recognizes variable consideration that is not expected to reverse. The Company allocates variable payments to distinct services in an overall contract when the variable payment relates specifically to that particular service and for which the variable payment reflects what the Company expects to receive in exchange for that particular service. As a result, the Company generally allocates and recognizes variable consideration in the period it has the contractual right to invoice the client. As described above, our most significant performance obligations involve variable consideration which constitutes the majority of our revenue streams. The Company’s variable consideration components meet the criteria in ASU No. 2014-09 for exclusion from disclosure of the remaining transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations as does any contracts with clients with an original duration of one year or less. The Company has contracts with clients that vary in length depending on the nature of the services and contractual terms negotiated with the client, and they generally extend over a multi-year period. Taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction, that are collected by the Company from a client, are excluded from revenue. Distribution revenues associated with shipping and handling activities are accounted for as a fulfillment activity and recognized as the related services or products are transferred to the client. As a practical expedient, the Company does not adjust the transaction price for the effects of a significant financing component if, at contract inception, the period between client payment and the transfer of goods or services is expected to be one year or less.Contract CostsDirect costs incurred to set up or convert a client’s systems to function with the Company’s technology, that are expected to be recovered, are generally deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the service term of the arrangement to which the costs relate, which commences after client acceptance when the processing term begins. The Company evaluates the carrying value of deferred client conversion and start-up costs for impairment on the basis of whether these costs are fully recoverable from the expected future undiscounted net operating cash flows of the client to which the deferred costs relate. 11Table of ContentsThese deferred costs are reflected in Other non-current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively. Refer to Note 9, “Other Non-Current Assets” for a further description of the Company’s Deferred client conversion and start-up costs.The Company defers incremental costs to obtain a client contract that it expects to recover, which consists of sales commissions incurred, only if the contract is executed. Deferred sales commission costs are amortized on a straight-line basis using a portfolio approach consistent with the pattern of transfer of the goods or services to which the asset relates, which also considers expected customer lives. As a practical expedient, the Company recognizes the sales commissions as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the sales commission asset that the entity otherwise would have recognized is one year or less. The Company evaluates the carrying value of deferred sales commission costs for impairment on the basis of whether these costs are fully recoverable from the expected future undiscounted net operating cash flows of the portfolio of clients to which the deferred sales commission costs relate. Refer to Note 9, “Other Non-Current Assets” for a further description of the Company’s Deferred sales commission costs. Disaggregation of RevenueThe Company has presented below its revenue disaggregated by product line and by revenue type within each of its Investor Communication Solutions and Global Technology and Operations reportable segments. Fee revenues in the Investor Communication Solutions segment are derived from both recurring and event-driven activity. In addition, the level of recurring and event-driven activity the Company processes directly impacts distribution revenues. While event-driven activity is highly repeatable, it may not recur on an annual basis. Event-driven fee revenues are based on the number of special events and corporate transactions the Company processes. Event-driven activity is impacted by financial market conditions and changes in regulatory compliance requirements, resulting in fluctuations in the timing and levels of event-driven fee revenues. Contract balances are reported in a net contract asset or liability position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.13Table of ContentsDuring the three months ended September 30, 2018, contract liabilities increased primarily due to the impact of a client contract termination. The Company recognized $40.4 million of revenue during the three months ended September 30, 2018 that was included in the contract liability balance as of July 1, 2018. Changes in Accounting PolicyExcept for the changes below, the Company has consistently applied its revenue and cost accounting policies to all periods presented in its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The details of the significant changes are disclosed below.•Sales Commissions - The Company previously recognized sales commissions related to contracts with clients as selling expenses when incurred. Under ASU No. 2014-09, the Company capitalizes incremental sales commissions as costs of obtaining a contract and, if expected to be recovered, amortizes such costs using a portfolio approach consistent with the pattern of transfer of the good or service to which the asset relates.•Deferred Client Conversion and Start-Up Costs - The Company previously capitalized direct and incremental client conversion or start-up costs to set up or convert a client’s systems to function with the Company’s technology that are expected to be recovered. Under ASU No. 2014-09, the Company will capitalize certain additional client conversion or start-up costs that are directly related to the client conversion but that are not considered incremental costs to the Company. •Proxy Revenues - The Company previously recognized proxy revenues following the client’s shareholder meeting, which is typically 30 days after the proxy materials distribution. Under ASU No. 2014-09, the Company will recognize proxy revenues primarily at the time of proxy materials distribution to the client’s shareholders. •Software Term License Revenues - The Company previously recognized revenue from software term licenses that are not hosted by the Company ratably over the contract term. Under ASU No. 2014-09, for software license arrangements that are distinct, the Company recognizes software license revenue upon delivery assuming a contract is deemed to exist. For arrangements with clients that include significant customization, modification or production of software such that the software is not distinct from the associated implementation services, revenue is typically recognized over time based upon efforts expended to measure progress towards completion or in certain cases upon completion of the installation. Software term license revenue is not a significant portion of the Company’s revenues.•Termination Fees - The Company previously recognized client contract termination fees at a point in time upon deconversion or receipt of a non-refundable cash payment. Under ASU No. 2014-09, a contract termination is considered a contract modification and therefore, the Company recognizes contract termination fees over the remaining modified contract term. 14Table of ContentsQuantitative Impact on Financial StatementsThe following tables summarize the impact of ASU No. The Company calculates diluted EPS using the treasury stock method, which reflects the potential dilution that could occur if outstanding stock options at the presented date are exercised and restricted stock unit awards have vested.For the three months ended September 30, 2018, there were no options to purchase Broadridge common stock that would have been anti-dilutive to exclude from the computation of diluted EPS. ACQUISITIONSAssets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations are recorded on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of the respective acquisition date based upon the estimated fair values at such date. The results of operations of the business acquired by the Company are included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings since the respective date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the underlying assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to Goodwill. Pro forma supplemental financial information for all acquisitions is not provided as the impact of these acquisitions on the Company’s operating results, financial position or cash flows was not material for any acquisition individually.During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, there were no business combinations or asset acquisitions. The aggregate purchase price was $30.6 million, consisting of $26.4 million in cash payments net of cash acquired, a $1.4 million 16Table of Contentsnote payable to the sellers that will be settled in the future, and a contingent consideration liability with an acquisition date fair value of $2.7 million. The contingent consideration liability is payable over the next three years upon the achievement by the acquired business of certain revenue and earnings targets. The contingent consideration liability has a maximum potential pay-out of $11.0 million upon the achievement in full of the defined financial targets by the acquired business. Net tangible assets acquired in the transaction were $0.2 million. This acquisition resulted in $18.5 million of Goodwill, which is primarily tax deductible. Intangible assets acquired, which totaled $12.0 million, consist primarily of software technology and customer relationships which are being amortized over a five-year life and seven-year life, respectively. The aggregate purchase price was $24.2 million, consisting of $21.8 million in cash payments net of cash acquired, and a $2.4 million note payable to the sellers that will be settled in the future. Net tangible liabilities assumed in the transaction were $10.0 million. This acquisition resulted in $28.7 million of Goodwill, which is not tax deductible. The aggregate purchase price was $47.7 million, consisting of $41.3 million in cash payments net of cash acquired, and a contingent consideration liability with an acquisition date fair value of $6.4 million. The contingent consideration liability contains a revenue component which will be settled in fiscal year 2021, based on the achievement of a defined revenue target by the acquired business. Net tangible liabilities assumed in the transaction were $1.9 million. This acquisition resulted in $29.2 million of Goodwill, which is not tax deductible. NOTE 8. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.In valuing assets and liabilities, the Company is required to maximize the use of quoted market prices and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The Company calculates the fair value of its Level 1 and Level 2 instruments, as applicable, based on the exchange traded price of similar or identical instruments where available or based on other observable instruments. These calculations take into consideration the credit risk of both the Company and its counterparties. The Company has not changed its valuation techniques in measuring the fair value of any financial assets and liabilities during the period.The fair values of the contingent consideration obligations are based on a probability weighted approach derived from the estimates of earn-out criteria and the probability assessment with respect to the likelihood of achieving those criteria. The Company’s policy is to record transfers between levels if any, as of the beginning of the fiscal year. NOTE 9. Please refer to Note 14, “Contractual Commitments, Contingencies and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” for a further discussion.The total amount of deferred client conversion and start-up costs and deferred sales commission costs amortized in Operating expenses during the period was $15.7 million.NOTE 10. The Fiscal 2017 Revolving Credit Facility is comprised of a $900.0 million U.S. dollar tranche and a $100.0 million multicurrency tranche. At September 30, 2018, the Company had $250.0 million in outstanding borrowings and had unused available capacity of $750.0 million under the Fiscal 2017 Revolving Credit Facility.The weighted-average interest rate on the Revolving Credit Facilities was 2.97% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2.20% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The fair value of the variable-rate Fiscal 2017 Revolving Credit Facility borrowings at September 30, 2018 approximates carrying value and has been classified as a Level 2 financial liability.Borrowings under the Fiscal 2017 Revolving Credit Facility can be made in tranches up to 360 days and bear interest at LIBOR plus 100 basis points. In addition, the Fiscal 2017 Revolving Credit Facility has an annual facility fee equal to 12.5 basis points on the entire facility, similar to the previous Fiscal 2015 Revolving Credit Facility. The annual facility fees for the Revolving Credit Facilities totaled $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, and $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The Company incurred $1.8 million in costs to establish the Fiscal 2017 Revolving Credit Facility. Such costs are capitalized in Other non-current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are being amortized to Interest expense, net on a straight-line basis, which approximates the effective interest method, over the term of this facility.The Company may voluntarily prepay, in whole or in part and without premium or penalty, borrowings under the Fiscal 2017 Revolving Credit Facility in accordance with individual drawn loan maturities. The Fiscal 2017 Revolving Credit Facility is subject to certain covenants, including a leverage ratio. The Fiscal 2014 Senior Notes will mature on September 1, 2020 and bear interest at a rate of 3.95% per annum. Interest on the Fiscal 2014 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1st and September 1st each year. The indenture governing the Fiscal 2014 Senior Notes contains certain covenants including covenants restricting the Company’s ability to create or incur liens securing indebtedness for borrowed money and to enter into certain sale-leaseback transactions. At September 30, 2018, the Company is in compliance with the covenants of the indenture governing the Fiscal 2014 Senior Notes. The indenture also contains covenants regarding the purchase of the Fiscal 2014 Senior Notes upon a change of control triggering event. The Company may redeem the Fiscal 2014 Senior Notes in whole or in part at any time before their maturity. The Company incurred $4.3 million in debt issuance costs to establish the Fiscal 2014 20Table of ContentsSenior Notes. These costs have been capitalized and are being amortized to Interest expense, net on a straight-line basis, which approximates the effective interest method, over the seven-year term. As of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, $1.1 million and $1.3 million, respectively, of debt issuance costs remain to be amortized and have been presented as a direct deduction from the carrying value of the Fiscal 2014 Senior Notes. The Fiscal 2016 Senior Notes will mature on June 27, 2026 and bear interest at a rate of 3.40% per annum. Interest on the Fiscal 2016 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 27 and December 27 of each year. The indenture governing the Fiscal 2016 Senior Notes contains certain covenants including covenants restricting the Company’s ability to create or incur liens securing indebtedness for borrowed money, to enter into certain sale-leaseback transactions, and to engage in mergers or consolidations and transfer or lease all or substantially all of our assets. At September 30, 2018, the Company is in compliance with the covenants of the indenture governing the Fiscal 2016 Senior Notes. The indenture also contains covenants regarding the purchase of the Fiscal 2016 Senior Notes upon a change of control triggering event. The Fiscal 2016 Senior Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank equally with the Company’s other senior indebtedness. The Company may redeem the Fiscal 2016 Senior Notes in whole or in part at any time before their maturity. The Company incurred $4.5 million in debt issuance costs to establish the Fiscal 2016 Senior Notes. These costs have been capitalized and are being amortized to Interest expense, net on a straight-line basis, which approximates the effective interest method, over the ten-year term. As of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, $3.3 million and $3.5 million, respectively, of debt issuance costs remain to be amortized and have been presented as a direct deduction from the carrying value of the Fiscal 2016 Senior Notes. As of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under these lines of credit.NOTE 12. The total of all stock options outstanding as of September 30, 2018 have a weighted-average remaining contractual life of 6.8 years. The Company has stock-based compensation plans under which the Company annually grants stock option and restricted stock unit awards. Stock options are granted to employees at exercise prices equal to the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the dates of grant, with the measurement of stock-based compensation expense recognized in Net earnings based on the fair value of the award on the date of grant. Stock-based compensation expense of $10.7 million and $8.5 million, as well as related tax benefits of $2.4 million and $3.0 million were recognized for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock options and restricted stock unit awards amounted to $16.2 million and $35.3 million, respectively, which will be amortized over the weighted-average remaining requisite service periods of 3.1 years and 1.4 years, respectively.For stock options issued, the fair value of each stock option was estimated on the date of grant using a binomial option pricing model. The binomial model considers a range of assumptions related to volatility, risk-free interest rate and employee exercise behavior. Expected volatilities utilized in the binomial model are based on a combination of implied market volatilities, historical volatility of the Company’s stock price and other factors. Similarly, the dividend yield is based on historical experience and expected future changes. The risk-free rate is derived from the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The binomial model also incorporates exercise and forfeiture assumptions based on an analysis of historical data. The expected life of the stock option grants is derived from the output of the binomial model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding.NOTE 13. INCOME TAXESThe provision for income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $12.6 million compared to $24.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was 14.1% compared to 32.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The ETB recognized for the comparable period ended September 30, 2017 was $1.5 million.With a fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, the Company’s U.S. federal corporate income tax rate will be 21.0%. For the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, the Company was subject to a blended U.S. federal corporate income tax rate of 28.1%; however for the period ended September 30, 2017, the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate was 35%.NOTE 14. Under the IT Services Agreement, IBM provides a broad range of technology services to the Company including supporting its mainframe, midrange, open systems, network and data center operations, as well as providing disaster recovery services. The Company has the option of incorporating additional services into the agreement over time. The migration of data center processing to IBM was completed in August 2012. The IT Services Agreement would have expired on June 30, 2022. In March 2015, the Company signed a two-year extension to the IT Services Agreement which expires on June 30, 2024. The Company has the right to renew the term of the IT Services Agreement for up to one additional 12-month term. Commitments remaining under this agreement at September 30, 2018 are $326.3 million through fiscal year 2024, the final year of the contract. The EU IT Services Agreement expires in October 2023. The Company has the right to renew the initial term of the EU IT Services Agreement for up to one additional 12-month term or one additional 24-month term. Commitments remaining under this agreement at September 30, 2018 are $26.2 million through fiscal year 2024, the final year of the contract. Equity Method InvestmentThe Company contributed $0.8 million to an equity method investment during the three months ended September 30, 2018, and has a remaining commitment of $1.0 million to fund this investment at September 30, 2018.OtherIn the normal course of business, the Company is subject to various claims and litigation. While the outcome of any claim or litigation is inherently unpredictable, the Company believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.It is not the Company’s business practice to enter into off-balance sheet arrangements. However, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact its financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company manages its exposure to these market risks through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company may use derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading purposes. The Company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments at September 30, 2018 or at June 30, 2018.In the normal course of business, the Company also enters into contracts in which it makes representations and warranties that relate to the performance of the Company’s products and services. Although BBPO’s FINRA membership agreement allows it to engage in clearing and the retailing of corporate securities in addition to mutual fund retailing on a wire order basis, BBPO does not clear customer transactions or carry customer accounts. At September 30, 2018, BBPO was in compliance with this net capital requirement.In addition, Matrix Trust Company, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, is a Colorado State non-depository trust company and National Securities Clearing Corporation trust member, whose primary business is to provide cash agent, custodial and directed or non-discretionary trust services to institutional customers. As a result, Matrix Trust Company is subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the Colorado Division of Banking and the Arizona Department of Financial Institutions, as well as the National Securities Clearing Corporation. Specific capital requirements that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items, when applicable, must be met. At September 30, 2018, Matrix Trust Company was in compliance with its capital requirements.23Table of ContentsNOTE 15. See Note 1, “Basis of Presentation” for a further description of the Company’s reportable segments.The primary components of “Other” are certain gains, losses, corporate overhead expenses and non-operating expenses that have not been allocated to the reportable segments, such as interest expense. Foreign currency exchange is a reconciling item between the actual foreign currency exchange rates and the constant foreign currency exchange rates used for internal management reporting.Certain corporate expenses, as well as certain centrally managed expenses, are allocated based upon budgeted amounts in a reasonable manner. Because the Company compensates the management of its various businesses on, among other factors, segment profit, the Company may elect to record certain segment-related operating and non-operating expense items in Other rather than reflect such items in segment profit.In connection with an organizational change made in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, in order to further align and enhance our portfolio of services, certain discrete services that were previously reported in our Investor Communication Solutions reportable segment are now reported within the Global Technology and Operations reportable segment. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included elsewhere herein.Forward-Looking StatementsThis Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words such as “expects,” “assumes,” “projects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “we believe,” “could be” and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. In particular, information appearing under “Business,” “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” includes forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management’s expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. We can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will occur or, if any of them do, what impact they will have on our results of operations and financial condition. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the 2018 Annual Report. Our services include investor and customer communications, securities processing, and data and analytics solutions. In short, we provide important infrastructure that powers the financial services industry. With over 50 years of experience, including over 10 years as an independent public company, we provide financial services firms with advanced, dependable, scalable and cost-effective integrated solutions. We serve asset management firms by meeting their critical needs for communicating with shareholders and by providing investment operations technology to support their investment decisions. For wealth management firms, we provide advisors with tools to create a better investor experience, while also delivering a more streamlined, efficient, and effective process. We help corporations manage every aspect of their shareholder communications-from registered and beneficial proxy processing, to annual meeting support and transfer agency services. ProxyEdge, our innovative electronic proxy delivery and voting solution for institutional investors and financial advisors, helps ensure the participation of the largest stockholders of many companies. In addition, we provide corporations with registered proxy services as well as registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services. The Broadridge Communications Cloud provides multi-channel communications delivery, communications management, information management and control and administration capabilities that enable and enhance our clients’ communications with their customers. Our advisor solutions enable firms, financial advisors, wealth managers, and insurance agents to better engage with customers through cloud-based marketing and customer communication tools. Our marketing ecosystem integrates data, content and technology to drive new client acquisition and cross-sell opportunities through the creation of sales and educational content, including seminars and a library of financial planning topics as well as customizable advisor websites, search engine marketing and electronic and print newsletters. Our advisor solutions also help advisors optimize their practice management through customer and account data aggregation and reporting.We provide asset managers and retirement service providers with data-driven solutions that help our clients grow revenue, operate efficiently, and maintain compliance. Our communications solutions provide an end-to-end platform for content management, composition, and multi-channel distribution of regulatory, marketing, and transactional information. Our data and analytics solutions provide investment product distribution data, analytical tools, insights, and research to enable asset managers to optimize product distribution across retail and institutional channels globally. We offer advanced solutions that automate the securities transaction lifecycle, from desktop productivity tools, data aggregation, performance reporting, and portfolio management to order capture and execution, trade confirmation, margin, cash management, clearance and settlement, asset servicing, reference data management, reconciliations, securities financing and collateral optimization, compliance and regulatory reporting, and accounting.Our services help financial institutions efficiently and cost-effectively consolidate their books and records, gather and service assets under management and manage risk, thereby enabling them to focus on their core business activities. Our multi-asset, multi-market, multi-entity and multi-currency solutions support real-time global trade processing of equity, fixed income, mutual fund, foreign exchange, and exchange traded derivatives in established and emerging markets.We also provide business process outsourcing services known as Managed Services that support the operations of our buy- and sell-side clients’ businesses. These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements present the condensed consolidated position of the Company and include the entities in which the Company directly or indirectly has a controlling financial interest as well as various entities in which the Company has investments recorded under the equity method of accounting as well as certain marketable and non-marketable securities. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Amounts presented may not sum due to rounding. The results of operations reported for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for the entire year or any subsequent interim period. Under this transition approach, the Company has not restated the prior period Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements presented. However, the Company has provided additional disclosures related to the amount by which each relevant fiscal 2019 financial statement line item was affected by adoption of ASU No. 2014-09 and explanations for significant changes, referred to herein as the “revenue accounting change.” Additional information about the Company’s revenue recognition policies and the related impact of the adoption of ASU No. 2014-09 is included in Note 2, “New Accounting Pronouncements” and Note 3, “Revenue Recognition” under Item 1 of Part I of this Form 10-Q.Effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, the Company adopted ASU No. In addition, equity investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value will be recorded at cost less impairment as further adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the issuer. The Company adopted ASU No. 2016-01 using the modified-retrospective transition approach by recording the cumulative effect of previously unrecognized gains or losses on publicly traded equity securities to retained earnings as of July 1, 2018. The provisions of ASU No. 2016-01 relative to equity investments that do not have a readily determinable fair value have been applied prospectively. The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have not been revised for periods prior to July 1, 2018.Effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, the Company adopted ASU No. All prior period information has been conformed to the current period presentation.28Table of ContentsCritical Accounting PoliciesIn presenting the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, management makes estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and related disclosures. Management continually evaluates the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The estimates, by their nature, are based on judgment, available information, and historical experience and are believed to be reasonable. However, actual amounts and results could differ from these estimates made by management. In management’s opinion, the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of results reported. The results of operations reported for the periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for subsequent periods. Certain accounting policies that require significant management estimates and are deemed critical to our results of operations or financial position are discussed in the “Critical Accounting Policies” section of Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Results of OperationsThe following discussions of Analysis of Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings and Analysis of Reportable Segments refer to the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. In addition, the level of recurring and event-driven activity we process directly impacts distribution revenues. While event-driven activity is highly repeatable, it may not recur on an annual basis. Event-driven activity is impacted by financial market conditions and changes in regulatory compliance requirements, resulting in fluctuations in the timing and levels of event-driven fee revenues. As such, the timing and level of event-driven activity and its potential impact on revenues and earnings are difficult to forecast.Generally, mutual fund proxy activity has been subject to a greater level of volatility than the other components of event-driven activity. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, mutual fund proxy fee revenues were 144% higher compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. During the full fiscal years 2018 and 2017, mutual fund proxy fee revenues were 28% higher and 19% higher than the prior fiscal year, respectively. Although it is difficult to forecast the levels of event-driven activity, we expect that the portion of fee revenues derived from mutual fund proxy activity may continue to experience volatility in the future.Distribution revenues primarily include revenues related to the physical mailing of proxy materials, interim communications, transaction reporting, customer communications and fulfillment services, as well as Matrix administrative services.29Table of ContentsDistribution cost of revenues consists primarily of postage-related expenses incurred in connection with our Investor Communication Solutions segment, as well as Matrix administrative services expenses. These costs are reflected in Cost of revenues.Closed sales represent an estimate of the expected annual recurring fee revenue for new client contracts that were signed by Broadridge in the current reporting period. Closed sales does not include event-driven or distribution activity. We consider contract terms, expected client volumes or activity, knowledge of the marketplace and experience with our clients, among other factors, when determining the estimate. Management uses Closed sales to measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs, as an indicator of expected future revenues and as a performance metric in determining incentive compensation. Closed sales is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for revenue or other income statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP. Closed sales is a useful metric for investors in understanding how management measures and evaluates our ongoing operational performance.The inherent variability of transaction volumes and activity levels can result in some variability of amounts reported as actual achieved Closed sales. Larger Closed sales can take up to 12 to 24 months or longer to convert to revenues, particularly for the services provided by our Global Technology and Operations segment. For fiscal years 2018 and 2019, we are reporting Closed sales net of a 4.0% allowance adjustment. Consequently, our reported Closed sales amounts will not be adjusted for actual revenues achieved because these adjustments are estimated in the period the sale is reported. The allowance adjustment was determined by reviewing the reported Closed sales amounts for the prior five fiscal years based on estimated revenues at signing and comparing those amounts to the revenues achieved one year after the clients went live on the services. We assess this allowance amount at the end of each fiscal year to establish the appropriate allowance for the subsequent year using the trailing five years data referenced earlier as the starting point, normalized for outlying factors, if any, to enhance the accuracy of the allowance.Closed SalesClosed sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $18.5 million a decrease of $4.4 million or 19%, compared to $22.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Closed sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 are net of an allowance adjustment of $0.8 million. Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $972.8 million, an increase of $48.0 million, or 5%, compared to $924.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The $48.0 million increase was driven by higher recurring fee revenues of $27.4 million, or 5%, higher event-driven fee revenues of $17.7 million, or 30% and higher distribution revenues of $7.1 million, or 2%. The higher event-driven fee revenues were primarily from increased mutual fund proxy revenues, which was partially offset by decreased equity proxy contest revenues. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted revenues by $4.2 million. Total Operating expenses. Total operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $872.7 million, an increase of $33.1 million, or 4%, compared to $839.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Cost of revenues increased by $13.0 million, or 2%, and Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $20.1 million, or 18%. Cost of revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $739.0 million, an increase of $13.0 million, or 2%, compared to $726.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increase primarily reflects higher operating costs from acquisitions, higher depreciation and amortization expense, and higher distribution cost of revenues driven by the increase in distribution revenues. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates decreased cost of revenues by $5.6 million.Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $133.7 million, an increase of $20.1 million, or 18%, compared to $113.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increase was primarily due to higher labor expenses, driven in part by higher performance-based compensation expense and the impact of acquisitions.Operating income. Operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $100.1 million, an increase of $14.9 million, or 17%, compared to $85.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increase is due to higher recurring fee revenues and event-driven fee revenues, partially offset by higher operating expenses as discussed above. Operating income margins increased to 10.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 9.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2017, primarily due to the increase in recurring fee revenues and event-driven fee revenues. Interest expense, net. Interest expense, net for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $9.6 million an increase of $0.2 million, or 2%, compared to $9.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increase was due to an increase in interest expense of $0.2 million.Other non-operating expense, net. Other non-operating expense, net for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $1.2 million, a decrease of $0.3 million, or 20%, compared to $1.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in fair value of marketable securities pursuant to an accounting change that was not in the comparable prior year period.Earnings before income taxes. Earnings before income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $89.3 million, an increase of $15.0 million, or 20%, compared to $74.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Provision for income taxes. The Provision for income taxes and effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $12.6 million and 14.1%, compared to $24.4 million and 32.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The ETB recognized for the comparable period ended September 30, 2017 was $1.5 million.Net Earnings and Basic and Diluted earnings per share. Net earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $76.7 million, an increase of $26.9 million, or 54%, compared to $49.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increase in Net earnings is primarily due to an increase in operating income primarily from the increase in recurring fee revenues and event-driven fee revenues and the decrease in the effective tax rate attributable to the enactment of the Tax Act and ETB.Basic and Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $0.66 and $0.64, respectively, compared to $0.43 and $0.42 for the three months ended September 30, 2017, respectively.Revenue Accounting Change. Event-driven fee revenues and distribution revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2017 would have been higher by $43.9 million and $18.5 million, respectively, if the prior year basis of revenue accounting 31Table of Contentsfollowed the current year basis of revenue accounting. Consequently, for the three months ended September 30, 2018, event-driven fee revenues and distribution revenues would have decreased by $26.3 million, or 25%, and $11.4 million, or 3%, respectively, compared to the same period in the prior year, had the prior year basis of revenue accounting been the same as the current year.For the three months ended December 31, 2017, event-driven fee revenues and distribution revenues would have been lower by $47.3 million and $21.4 million, respectively, due to the impact of the revenue accounting change, and for the six months ended December 31, 2017, event-driven fee revenues and distribution revenues would have been lower by $3.4 million and $2.9 million, respectively, due to the impact of the revenue accounting change.Considering the impact of the revenue accounting change, operating income margins for the three months ended September 30, 2017 would have been 12.0% primarily due to the timing of recognition of event-driven revenues. Foreign currency exchange is a reconciling item between the actual foreign currency exchange rates and the constant foreign currency exchange rates used for internal management reporting.Certain corporate expenses, as well as certain centrally managed expenses, are allocated based upon budgeted amounts in a reasonable manner. Because the Company compensates the management of its various businesses on, among other factors, segment profit, the Company may elect to record certain segment-related expense items in Other rather than reflect such items in segment profit.In connection with an organizational change made in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, in order to further align and enhance our portfolio of services, certain discrete services that were previously reported in our Investor Communication Solutions reportable segment are now reported within the Global Technology and Operations reportable segment. Investor Communication Solutions segment’s Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $765.8 million an increase of $39.3 million, or 5%, compared to $726.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The impact of the revenue accounting change on recurring fee revenue was negligible. Position growth compared to the same period in the prior year, which is a component of internal growth, was 7% for mutual fund and ETF interims. Although position growth was positive, internal growth was lower due to a decrease in communications related transactional volumes.Higher event-driven fee revenues were the result of increased mutual fund proxy activity which was partially offset by decreased equity proxy contests.Earnings before Income Taxes. Earnings before income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $59.0 million an increase of $13.4 million, or 29%, compared to $45.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The earnings increase was primarily due to higher event-driven fee revenues and recurring fee revenues. Pre-tax margins increased by 1.4 percentage points to 7.7% from 6.3%. Revenue Accounting Change. Event-driven fee revenues and distribution revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2017 would have been higher by $43.9 million and $18.5 million, respectively, if the prior year basis of revenue accounting followed the current year basis of revenue accounting. Consequently, for the three months ended September 30, 2018, event-driven fee revenues and distribution revenues would have decreased by $26.3 million, or 25%, and $11.4 million, or 3%, respectively, compared to the same period in the prior year.For the three months ended December 31, 2017, event-driven fee revenues and distribution revenues would have been lower by $47.3 million and $21.4 million, respectively, due to the impact of the revenue accounting change. For the six months ended December 31, 2017, event-driven fee revenues and distribution revenues would have been lower by $3.4 million and $2.9 million, respectively, due to the impact of the revenue accounting change.Considering the impact of the revenue accounting change, pre-tax margins for the three months ended September 30, 2017 would have been 10.2% primarily due to the timing of recognition of event-driven revenues.33Table of ContentsGlobal Technology and OperationsRevenues. Global Technology and Operations segment’s Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $227.7 million an increase of $12.8 million, or 6%, compared to $214.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. Earnings before Income Taxes. Earnings before income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were $46.4 million an increase of $1.4 million, or 3%, compared to $45.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The earnings increase was primarily due to higher organic revenues. Pre-tax margins decreased by 0.5 percentage points to 20.4% from 20.9%. Revenue Accounting Change. Considering the impact of the revenue accounting change, earnings before income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2017 would have been $1.7 million lower. Consequently, for the three months ended September 30, 2018, earnings would have increased by $3.1 million, or 7%, compared to the same period in the prior year.OtherLoss before Income Taxes. Loss before income taxes was $23.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $1.7 million, or 8%, compared to $21.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017. The increased loss was primarily due to higher corporate expenses.Explanation and Reconciliation of the Company’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial MeasuresThe Company’s results in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP except where otherwise noted. These Non-GAAP measures are Adjusted Operating income, Adjusted Operating income margin, Adjusted Net earnings, Adjusted earnings per share, and Free cash flow. These Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results.The Company believes our Non-GAAP financial measures help investors understand how management plans, measures and evaluates the Company’s business performance. Management believes that Non-GAAP measures provide consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates investors’ understanding of the Company’s operating results and trends by providing an additional basis for comparison. Management uses these Non-GAAP financial measures to, among other things, evaluate our ongoing operations, for internal planning and forecasting purposes and in the calculation of performance-based compensation. In addition, and as a consequence of the importance of these Non-GAAP financial measures in managing our business, the Company’s Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors incorporates Non-GAAP financial measures in the evaluation process for determining management compensation.Adjusted Operating Income, Adjusted Operating Income Margin, Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Earnings Per ShareThese Non-GAAP measures reflect Operating income, Operating income margin, Net earnings, and Diluted earnings per share, as adjusted to exclude the impact of certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items that management believes are not indicative of our ongoing operating performance. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles and Purchased Intellectual Property represents non-cash amortization expenses associated with the Company's acquisition activities. Acquisition and Integration Costs represent certain transaction and integration costs associated with the Company’s acquisition activities. We exclude Amortization of Acquired Intangibles and Purchased Intellectual Property as well as Acquisition and Integration Costs from our earnings measures because excluding such information provides us with an understanding of the results from the primary operations of our business and these items do not reflect ordinary operations or earnings. Management believes these adjusted measures may be useful to an investor in evaluating the underlying operating performance of our business.34Table of ContentsFree Cash FlowIn addition to the Non-GAAP financial measures discussed above, we provide Free cash flow information because we consider Free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated that could be used for dividends, share repurchases, strategic acquisitions, other investments, as well as debt servicing. Free cash flow is a Non-GAAP financial measure and is defined by the Company as Net cash flows provided by operating activities less Capital expenditures as well as Software purchases and capitalized internal use software. At September 30, 2018, net working capital was $394.5 million compared to $213.8 million at June 30, 2018. At the current time, and in future periods, we expect cash generated by our operations, together with existing cash, cash equivalents, and borrowings from the capital markets, to be sufficient to cover cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, dividends and common stock repurchases.At September 30, 2018, $66.3 million of the $204.7 million of Cash and cash equivalents were held by our foreign subsidiaries, and $66.8 million of Cash and cash equivalents were held by regulated entities. We expect existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as regular quarterly dividends, debt repayment schedules, and material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities, such as material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we would be required to pay foreign taxes to repatriate these funds. Borrowings under the Fiscal 2017 Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 100 basis points. In addition, the Fiscal 2017 Revolving Credit Facility has an annual facility fee equal to 12.5 basis points on the entire facility, which totaled $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, and $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. At September 30, 2018, the Company had $250.0 million in outstanding borrowings and had unused available capacity of $750.0 million under the Fiscal 2017 Revolving Credit Facility. The Fiscal 2017 Revolving Credit Facility and the senior notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and are ranked equally in right of payment. Interest on the senior notes due 2020 is payable semiannually on March 1st and September 1st each year based on a fixed per annum rate equal to 3.95%. Interest on the senior notes due 2026 is payable semiannually on June 27th and December 27th each year based on a fixed per annum rate equal to 3.40%. The decrease in cash used in investing activities of $24.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017, primarily reflects a decrease in capital expenditures. The decrease in cash provided by financing activities of $92.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017 primarily reflects a decrease in net proceeds from borrowings of $100.0 million.37Table of ContentsSeasonalityProcessing and distributing proxy materials and annual reports to investors in equity securities and mutual funds comprises a large portion of our Investor Communication Solutions business. We process and distribute the greatest number of proxy materials and annual reports during our third and fourth fiscal quarters. The recurring periodic activity of this business is linked to significant filing deadlines imposed by law on public reporting companies. Historically, this has caused our revenues, operating income, net earnings, and cash flows from operating activities to be higher in our fourth fiscal quarter than in any other quarter. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. 2014-09 resulting in the majority of our revenues from equity proxy services being recognized in the third and fourth quarters. Notwithstanding the impact of ASU No. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the prior year period is primarily due to the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate change from 35% to 21% under the Tax Act, as well as the recognition of $7.0 million in ETB attributable to stock-based compensation. Under the IT Services Agreement, IBM provides a broad range of technology services to the Company including supporting its mainframe, midrange, open systems, network and data center operations, as well as providing disaster recovery services. The Company has the option of incorporating additional services into the agreement over time. The migration of data center processing to IBM was completed in August 2012. The IT Services Agreement would have expired on June 30, 2022. In March 2015, the Company signed a two-year extension to the IT Services Agreement which expires on June 30, 2024. The Company has the right to renew the term of the IT Services Agreement for up to one additional 12-month term. Commitments remaining under this agreement at September 30, 2018 are $326.3 million through fiscal year 2024, the final year of the contract. The EU IT Services Agreement expires in October 2023. The Company has the right to renew the initial term of the EU IT Services Agreement for up to one additional 12-month term or one additional 24-month term. Commitments remaining under this agreement at September 30, 2018 are $26.2 million through fiscal year 2024, the final year of the contract. The Company contributed $0.8 million to an equity method investment during the three months ended September 30, 2018, and has a remaining commitment of $1.0 million to fund this investment at September 30, 2018. Other Commercial AgreementsCertain of the Company’s subsidiaries established unsecured, uncommitted lines of credit with banks. There were no outstanding borrowings under these lines of credit at September 30, 2018.Off-balance Sheet ArrangementsIt is not the Company’s business practice to enter into off-balance sheet arrangements. However, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company manages its exposure to these market risks through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments at September 30, 2018 or at June 30, 2018. In the normal course of business, the Company also enters into contracts in which it makes representations and warranties that relate to the performance of the Company’s products 38Table of Contentsand services. The Company does not expect any material losses related to such representations and warranties or collateral arrangements.Recently-issued Accounting PronouncementsPlease refer to Note 2, “New Accounting Pronouncements” and Note 3, “Revenue Recognition” to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1. of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for a discussion on the impact of new accounting pronouncements, including the impact of ASU No. 2014-09.39Table of ContentsItem 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKThere have been no material changes related to market risk from the disclosures in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2018.Item 4.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESManagement’s Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and ProceduresOur management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2018. OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1.LEGAL PROCEEDINGSIn the normal course of business, the Company is subject to claims and litigation. While the outcome of any claim or litigation is inherently unpredictable, the Company believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.Item 1A.RISK FACTORSIn addition to the information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the “Risk Factors” disclosed under Item 1A. to Part I in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, filed on August 7, 2018. You should be aware that these risk factors and other information may not describe every risk facing our Company. There have been no material changes to the risk factors we have disclosed in the “Risk Factors” section of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc., pursuant to Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. BROADRIDGE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS, INC. 31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc., pursuant to Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.