See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer”, “smaller reporting company,” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. FINANCIAL INFORMATION Item 1. We have prepared the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, and Regulation S-X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In our opinion, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements have been included and all adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature. Operating results for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected to occur for the entire year.Recently Adopted Accounting PronouncementsDate Issued and TopicDate Adopted and MethodDescriptionImpactMay 2014RevenueJanuary 1, 2018Modified RetrospectiveThe new standard, as amended, sets forth a single comprehensive model for recognizing and reporting revenues. The standard also requires additional financial statement disclosures that enable users to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows relating to customer contracts. See Note 3 for the impact of adoption of this standard.November 2016Statement of Cash FlowsJanuary 1, 2018RetrospectiveThis update requires restricted cash to be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning and ending amounts on the statement of cash flows. It also requires a reconciliation of such totals to the amounts on the statement of financial position and disclosure as to the nature of the restrictions.There were no restricted cash balances as of June 30, 2018. The adoption of this update had no impact on our financial statements for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018.February 2018Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive IncomeJanuary 1, 2018In the period of adoptionThis update provides an option for entities to reclassify stranded tax effects caused by the newly-enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or Tax Reform Act, from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings. We have early adopted this update as of January 1, 2018. The adoption resulted in a decrease of $1 million in accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase of $1 million to opening retained earnings.6Table of ContentsNew Accounting PronouncementsDate Issued and TopicEffective DateDescriptionImpactFebruary 2016LeasesJanuary 1, 2019The new standard replaces the existing guidance on leases and requires the lessee to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with lease terms equal to or greater than twelve months. For finance leases, the lessee would recognize interest expense and amortization of the right-of-use asset, and for operating leases, the lessee would recognize total lease expense on a straight-line basis. The standard offers several practical expedients for transition and certain expedients specific to lessees or lessors. We expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated statement of financial position, but not on the consolidated statements of operations or cash flows. As of December 31, 2017, our undiscounted operating lease commitments were $943 million.We are currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients which permits us to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs. We are also evaluating other available practical expedients. We intend to adopt the standard retrospectively to the beginning of the period of adoption through a cumulative-effect adjustment.March 2017Nonrefundable Fees and Other CostsJanuary 1, 2019This update shortens the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium to the earliest call date. The amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount. Upon adoption, entities will be required to use a modified retrospective transition with the cumulative effect adjustment recognized to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption.We are currently evaluating the effect the amendments will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.Note 2 — Internal Investigation and Related MattersWe are conducting an internal investigation focused on whether certain payments relating to Company-owned facilities in India were made improperly and in possible violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other applicable laws. The investigation is also examining various other payments made in small amounts in India that may not have complied with Company policy or applicable law. In September 2016, we voluntarily notified the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, and Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and are cooperating fully with both agencies. The investigation is being conducted under the oversight of the Audit Committee, with the assistance of outside counsel. To date, the investigation has identified a total of approximately $6 million in payments made between 2009 and 2016 that may have been improper. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded out-of-period corrections related to $4 million of such payments that had been previously capitalized that should have been expensed. These out-of-period corrections and the other $2 million in potentially improper payments were not material to any previously issued financial statements. There were no adjustments recorded during 2018 and 2017 related to the amounts under investigation.7Table of ContentsNote 3 — RevenuesAdoption of ASC Topic 606, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC Topic 606, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” or the New Revenue Standard, using the modified retrospective method applied to contracts that were not completed as of January 1, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting policies. Upon adoption of the New Revenue Standard on January 1, 2018, we recorded a net increase to opening retained earnings of approximately $121 million, after a tax impact of $37 million. We account for a contract when it has approval and commitment from all parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. The Company applies judgment in determining the customer’s ability and intention to pay, which is based on a variety of factors including the customer’s historical payment experience. We may enter into arrangements that consist of multiple performance obligations. Such arrangements may include any combination of our deliverables. To the extent a contract includes multiple promised deliverables, we apply judgment to determine whether promised deliverables are capable of being distinct and are distinct in the context of the contract. If these criteria are not met, the promised deliverables are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. For arrangements with multiple distinct performance obligations, we allocate consideration among the performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling price. Standalone selling price is the price at which we would sell a promised good or service separately to the customer. When not directly observable, we typically estimate standalone selling price by using the expected cost plus a margin approach. We typically establish a standalone selling price range for our deliverables, which is reassessed on a periodic basis or when facts and circumstances change.For performance obligations where control is transferred over time, revenues are recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the nature of the deliverables to be provided. Revenues related to fixed-price contracts for application development and systems integration services, consulting or other technology services are recognized as the service is performed using the cost to cost method, under which the total value of revenues is recognized on the basis of the percentage that each contract’s total labor cost to date bears to the total expected labor costs. Revenues related to fixed-price application maintenance, testing and business process services are recognized based on our right to invoice for services performed for contracts in which the invoicing is representative of the value being delivered, in accordance with the practical expedient in ASC 606-10-55-18. If our invoicing is not consistent with value delivered, revenues are recognized as the service is performed based on the cost to cost method described above. The cost to cost method requires estimation of future costs, which is updated as the project progresses to reflect the latest available information; such estimates and changes in estimates involve the use of judgment. The cumulative impact of any revision in estimates is reflected in the financial reporting period in which the change in estimate becomes known and any anticipated losses on contracts are recognized immediately. Revenues related to fixed-price hosting and infrastructure services are recognized based on our right to invoice for services performed for contracts in which the invoicing is representative of the value being delivered, in accordance with the practical expedient in ASC 606-10-55-18. If our invoicing is not consistent with value delivered, revenues are recognized on a straight-line basis unless revenues are earned and obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. The revenue recognition method applied to the types of contracts described above provides the most faithful depiction of performance towards satisfaction of our performance obligations; for example, the cost to cost method is used when the value of services provided to the customer is best represented by the costs expended to deliver those services.Revenues related to our non-hosted software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software are recognized when the software is delivered as control is transferred at a point in time. For software license arrangements that require significant functionality enhancements or modification of the software, revenues for the software license and related services are recognized as the services are performed in accordance with the methods described above. In software hosting arrangements, the rights provided to the customer, such as ownership of a license, contract termination provisions and the feasibility of the client to operate the software, are considered in determining whether the arrangement includes a license or a service. Sales and usage-based fees promised in exchange for licenses of intellectual property are not recognized as revenue until the uncertainty related to the variable amounts is resolved. Revenues related to software maintenance and support are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period.Revenues related to our time-and-materials, transaction-based or volume-based contracts are recognized over the period the services are provided in a manner that corresponds with the value transferred to the customer to-date relative to the remaining services to be provided.Revenues also include the reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses. Our warranties generally provide a customer with assurance that the related deliverable will function as the parties intended because it complies with agreed-upon specifications and is therefore not considered an additional performance obligation in the contract.10Table of ContentsFrom time to time, we may enter into arrangements with third party suppliers to resell products or services. In doing so, we first evaluate whether we control the good or service before it is transferred to the customer. If we control the good or service before it is transferred to the customer, we are the principal; if not, we are the agent. Determining whether we control the good or service before it is transferred to the customer may require judgment.Our contracts may be modified to add, remove or change existing performance obligations. The accounting for modifications to our contracts involves assessing whether the services added to an existing contract are distinct and whether the pricing is at the standalone selling price. Services added that are not distinct are accounted for on a cumulative catch up basis, while those that are distinct are accounted for prospectively, either as a separate contract if the additional services are priced at the standalone selling price, or as a termination of the existing contract and creation of a new contract if not priced at the standalone selling price. Services added to our application development and systems integration service contracts are typically not distinct, while services added to our other contracts, including application maintenance, testing and business process services contracts, are typically distinct. We include in the transaction price variable consideration only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of revenues recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price may involve judgment and are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information that is reasonably available to us.We assess the timing of the transfer of goods or services to the customer as compared to the timing of payments to determine whether a significant financing component exists. As a practical expedient, we do not assess the existence of a significant financing component when the difference between payment and transfer of deliverables is a year or less. If the difference in timing arises for reasons other than the provision of finance to either the customer or us, no financing component is deemed to exist. The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our services, not to receive or provide financing from or to customers. We do not consider set up or transition fees paid upfront by our customers to represent a financing component, as such fees are required to encourage customer commitment to the project and protect us from early termination of the contract.Costs to FulfillRecurring operating costs for contracts with customers are recognized as incurred. These costs are expensed ratably over the estimated life of the customer relationship, including expected renewals. In determining the estimated life of the customer relationship, we evaluate the average contract term, on a portfolio basis by nature of the services to be provided, and apply judgment to evaluate the rate of technological and industry change. Capitalized amounts are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded when projected remaining undiscounted operating cash flows are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of the capitalized costs to fulfill. The following table presents information related to the capitalized costs to fulfill, such as set-up or transition activities, for the six months ended June 30, 2018. Costs to obtain contracts were immaterial for the periods disclosed. For example, we recognize a receivable for revenues related to our time and materials and transaction or volume-based contracts when earned regardless of whether amounts have been billed. We present such receivables in Trade accounts receivable, net in our consolidated statements of financial position at their net estimated realizable value. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to provide for the estimated amount of receivables that may not be collected. The allowance is based upon an assessment of customer creditworthiness, historical payment experience, the age of outstanding receivables and other applicable factors.A contract asset is a right to consideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. Contract assets are presented in Other current assets in our consolidated statements of financial position and primarily relate to unbilled amounts on fixed-price contracts utilizing the cost to cost method of revenue recognition. We classify deferred revenue as current or noncurrent based on the timing of when we expect to recognize the revenues. The noncurrent portion of deferred revenue is included in other noncurrent liabilities in our consolidated statements of financial position. The difference between the opening and closing balances of our contract assets and deferred revenues primarily results from the timing difference between our performance obligations and the customer’s payment. We receive payments from customers based on the terms established in our contracts, which vary by contract type. Revenues recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2018 for performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods were immaterial.Remaining Performance ObligationsASC 606 requires that we disclose the aggregate amount of transaction price that is allocated to performance obligations that have not yet been satisfied as of June 30, 2018. 12Table of ContentsMany of our performance obligations meet one or more of these exemptions. As of June 30, 2018, the aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations, other than those meeting the exclusion criteria above, was $1,595 million, of which approximately 64% is expected to be recognized as revenues within 2 years. Disaggregation of RevenuesThe table below presents disaggregated revenues from contracts with customers by customer location, service line and contract-type for each of our business segments. We believe this disaggregation best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of our revenues and cash flows are affected by industry, market and other economic factors. The acquisition of Bolder Healthcare Solutions, a privately-held U.S. provider of revenue cycle management solutions to the healthcare industry expands our healthcare consulting, technology and business process services portfolio and strengthens our position in digital healthcare technology and operations. The acquisition of Hedera Consulting, a privately-held company specializing in business advisory and data analytics services across a number of industries expands our consulting, business insight and digital transformation capabilities in Belgium and the Netherlands.14Table of ContentsThese acquisitions were not material, either individually or in the aggregate, to our operations, financial position or cash flow. Accordingly, pro forma results have not been presented. These acquisitions were included in our unaudited consolidated financial statements as of the date on which the businesses were acquired. We have allocated the purchase price related to these transactions to tangible and intangible assets and liabilities, including non-deductible goodwill, based on their estimated fair values. We will finalize the purchase price allocation as soon as practicable within the measurement period, but in no event later than one year following the date of acquisition. Charges we incurred as part of this realignment were reported in "Selling, general and administrative expenses" in our consolidated statements of operations. The realignment charges are comprised of severance costs, including those related to a voluntary separation program announced in May 2017, lease termination costs and advisory fees related to non-routine shareholder matters and to the development of our realignment and return of capital programs. See Note 9.Equity Investment SecuritiesOur equity investment securities consist of a U.S. dollar denominated investment in a fixed income mutual fund. Unrealized losses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were immaterial. The value of the fixed income mutual fund is based on the net asset value, or NAV, of the fund, with appropriate consideration of the liquidity and any restrictions on disposition of our investment in the fund. There were no realized gains or losses on equity securities during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.Available-for-Sale Investment SecuritiesOur available-for-sale investment securities consist of U.S. dollar denominated investments primarily in U.S. Treasury notes, U.S. government agency debt securities, municipal debt securities, non-U.S. government debt securities, U.S. and international corporate bonds, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, debt securities issued by supranational institutions, and asset-backed securities, including securities backed by auto loans, credit card receivables, and other receivables. Our investment guidelines are to purchase securities which are investment grade at the time of acquisition. We monitor the credit ratings of the securities in our portfolio on an ongoing basis. At each reporting date, we perform an evaluation of impaired available-for-sale securities to determine if the unrealized losses are other-than-temporary. We do not consider any of the investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 30, 2018. Our investment guidelines are to purchase securities that are investment grade at the time of acquisition. We monitor the credit ratings of the securities in our portfolio on an ongoing basis. We do not consider any of the investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 30, 2018. The term loan and the revolving credit facility both mature in November 2019. All notes drawn to date under the revolving credit facility have been less than 90 days in duration. We are required under the Credit Agreement to make scheduled quarterly principal payments on the term loan. The Company has elected to pay the transition tax on undistributed earnings over eight years. The one-time incremental income tax expense is provisional as it reflects certain assumptions based upon our interpretation of the Tax Reform Act and may change, possibly materially, as we receive additional clarification and guidance and as the interpretation of the Tax Reform Act evolves over time. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we have not recorded any adjustments to the one-time provisional net income tax expense. The recognition of these benefits in the first quarter of 2017 was based on management’s reassessment regarding whether certain unrecognized tax benefits met the more-likely-than-not threshold in light of the lapse in the statute of limitations as to a portion of such benefits. The estimate of our 2018 annual effective income tax rate reflects the current interpretation of the Tax Reform Act, including the GILTI provision and may change as we receive additional clarification and guidance and as the interpretation of the Tax Reform Act evolves over time. We are involved in an ongoing dispute with the Indian Income Tax Department, or ITD, in connection with which we received a notice in March 2018 asserting that the ITD is owed additional taxes on our previously disclosed 2016 India Cash Remittance, the transaction undertaken by our principal operating subsidiary in India, or CTS India, to repurchase shares from its shareholders, which are non-Indian Cognizant entities, valued at $2.8 billion. As a result of that transaction, undertaken pursuant to a plan approved by the Madras High Court in Chennai, India, we previously paid $135 million in Indian income taxes, which we believe are all the applicable taxes owed for this transaction under Indian law. Accordingly, we have not recorded any reserves for these matters as of June 30, 2018. The ITD Dispute is ongoing, and no final decision has been reached.In March 2018, the ITD placed an attachment on certain of our India bank accounts, relating to the 2016 India Cash Remittance. In April 2018, the Madras High Court granted our application for a stay of the actions of the ITD and lifted the ITD’s attachment of our bank accounts. This amount is presented in "Other current assets" on our consolidated statement of financial position. We have classified affected time deposits as restricted assets and reported them in “Short-term investments” on 21Table of Contentsour consolidated statement of financial position. As of June 30, 2018, the restricted time deposits balance was $419 million, including accumulated interest. There were no restricted time deposits as of December 31, 2017.Note 10 — Derivative Financial InstrumentsIn the normal course of business, we use foreign exchange forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. Derivatives may give rise to credit risks from the possible non-performance by counterparties. Credit risk is generally limited to the fair value of those contracts that are favorable to us. We have limited our credit risk by entering into derivative transactions only with highly-rated financial institutions, limiting the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution and conducting an ongoing evaluation of the creditworthiness of the financial institutions with which we do business. In addition, all the assets and liabilities related to our foreign exchange forward contracts set forth in the below table are subject to International Swaps and Derivatives Association, or ISDA, master netting arrangements or other similar agreements with each individual counterparty. These master netting arrangements generally provide for net settlement of all outstanding contracts with the counterparty in the case of an event of default or a termination event. We have presented all the assets and liabilities related to our foreign exchange forward contracts on a gross basis, with no offsets, in our accompanying unaudited consolidated statements of financial position. These contracts are intended to partially offset the impact of movement of exchange rates on future operating costs and are scheduled to mature each month during 2018, 2019 and the first half of 2020. Under these contracts, we purchase Indian rupees and sell U.S. dollars. Hedge ineffectiveness was immaterial for all periods presented. We entered into a series of foreign exchange forward contracts that are scheduled to mature in 2018. The authoritative guidance defines fair value as the exit price, or the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants as of the measurement date. The authoritative guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy that is intended to increase consistency and comparability in fair value measurements and related disclosures. The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable. See Note 9. The fair value of commercial paper, certificates of deposit, U.S. government agency securities, municipal debt securities, debt securities issued by supranational institutions, U.S. and international corporate bonds and foreign government debt securities is measured based on relevant trade data, dealer quotes, or model-driven valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data, such as yield curves and credit spreads. We measure the fair value of our asset-backed securities using model-driven valuations based on significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data such as dealer quotes, available trade information, spread data, current market assumptions on prepayment speeds and defaults and historical data on deal collateral performance. The carrying value of deposits approximated fair value as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.We estimate the fair value of each foreign exchange forward contract by using a present value of expected cash flows model. This model calculates the difference between the current market forward price and the contracted forward price for each foreign 26Table of Contentsexchange contract and applies the difference in the rates to each outstanding contract. The market forward rates include a discount and credit risk factor. The amounts are aggregated by type of contract and maturity.During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and the year ended December 31, 2017, there were no transfers among Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3 financial assets and liabilities.Note 12 — Stockholders' EquityStock Repurchase ProgramWe have entered into multiple accelerated stock repurchase agreements, or ASRs, under our stock repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors. The total number of shares ultimately delivered, and therefore the average price paid per share, will be determined at the end of the purchase period, which is scheduled to end during the third quarter of 2018, based on the volume-weighted average price of the Company's common stock during that period. As of June 30, 2018, the remaining available balance under our stock repurchase program was $800 million.Stock repurchases were made in connection with our stock-based compensation plans, whereby Company shares were tendered by employees for payment of applicable statutory tax withholdings. In 2017, we also repurchased a limited number of shares from employees at the repurchase date market price. We accrue a liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a material loss contingency is reasonably possible but not probable, we do not record a liability, but instead disclose the nature and the amount of the claim, and an estimate of the loss or range of loss, if such an estimate can be made. Legal fees are expensed as incurred. In the opinion of management, the outcome of any existing claims and legal or regulatory proceedings, other than the specific matters described below, if decided adversely, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We are conducting an internal investigation focused on whether certain payments relating to Company-owned facilities in India were made improperly and in possible violation of the FCPA and other applicable laws. The investigation is also examining various other payments made in small amounts in India that may not have complied with Company policy or applicable law. In September 2016, we voluntarily notified the DOJ and SEC and are cooperating fully with both agencies. The investigation is being conducted under the oversight of the Audit Committee, with the assistance of outside counsel. To date, the investigation has identified a total of approximately $6 million in payments made between 2009 and 2016 that may have been improper. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded out-of-period corrections related to $4 million of such payments that were previously capitalized that should have been expensed. These out-of-period corrections and the other $2 million in potentially improper payments were not material to any previously issued financial statements. There were no adjustments recorded during 2018 and 2017 related to the amounts under investigation. On October 5, 2016, October 27, 2016, and November 18, 2016, three putative securities class action complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, naming us and certain of our current and former officers as 29Table of Contentsdefendants. In an order dated February 3, 2017, the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey consolidated the three putative securities class actions into a single action and appointed lead plaintiffs and lead counsel. On April 7, 2017, the lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint on behalf of a putative class of stockholders who purchased our common stock during the period between February 27, 2015 and September 29, 2016, naming us and certain of our current and former officers as defendants and alleging violations of the Exchange Act, based on allegedly false or misleading statements related to potential violations of the FCPA, our business, prospects and operations, and the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. The lead plaintiffs seek an award of compensatory damages, among other relief, and their reasonable costs and expenses, including attorneys’ fees. Under a stipulation filed by the parties on February 23, 2017, defendants filed motions to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint on June 6, 2017, plaintiffs filed an opposition brief on July 21, 2017 responding to defendants’ motions to dismiss, and defendants filed reply briefs in further support of their motions to dismiss on September 5, 2017. On September 5, 2017, defendants also filed a motion to strike certain allegations in the consolidated amended complaint, plaintiffs filed an opposition to the motion to strike on October 2, 2017, and, on October 10, 2017, we filed a reply brief in further support of the motion to strike. On October 31, 2016, November 15, 2016, and November 18, 2016, three putative shareholder derivative complaints were filed in New Jersey Superior Court, Bergen County, naming us, all of our then current directors and certain of our current and former officers as defendants. On January 24, 2017, the New Jersey Superior Court, Bergen County, consolidated the three putative shareholder derivative actions filed in that court into a single action and appointed lead plaintiff and lead counsel. On March 16, 2017, the parties filed a stipulation deferring all further proceedings pending a final, non-appealable ruling on the then anticipated motion to dismiss the consolidated putative securities class action. On April 26, 2017, in lieu of ordering the stipulation filed by the parties, the New Jersey Superior Court deferred further proceedings by dismissing the consolidated putative shareholder derivative litigation without prejudice but permitting the parties to file a motion to vacate the dismissal in the future. On February 22, 2017, a fourth putative shareholder derivative complaint asserting similar claims was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, naming us and certain of our then current directors as defendants. On April 5, 2017, the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey entered an order staying all proceedings pending a final, non-appealable ruling on the then anticipated motion to dismiss the consolidated putative securities class action. On April 7, 2017, a fifth putative shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, naming us, certain of our then current directors, and certain of our current and former officers as defendants. On May 10, 2017, a sixth putative shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, naming us, certain of our then current directors, and certain of our current and former officers as defendants. In an order dated June 20, 2017, the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey consolidated the three putative shareholder derivative actions filed in that court into a single action, appointed lead plaintiff and lead counsel, and stayed all further proceedings pending a final, non-appealable ruling on the motions to dismiss the consolidated putative securities class action. All of the putative shareholder derivative complaints allege among other things that certain of our public disclosures were false and misleading by failing to disclose that payments allegedly in violation of the FCPA had been made and by asserting that management had determined that our internal controls were effective. The plaintiffs seek awards of compensatory damages and restitution to the Company as a result of the alleged violations and their costs and attorneys’ fees, experts’ fees, and other litigation expenses, among other relief.We are presently unable to predict the duration, scope or result of the internal investigation, any investigations by the DOJ or the SEC, the consolidated putative securities class action, the putative shareholder derivative actions or any other lawsuits. As such, we are presently unable to develop a reasonable estimate of a possible loss or range of losses, if any, and thus have not recorded any accruals related to these matters. The DOJ and the SEC have a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions under the FCPA and other laws and regulations including injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties, modifications to business practices, including the termination or modification of existing business relationships, the imposition of compliance programs and the retention of a monitor to oversee compliance with the FCPA. In addition, the DOJ and the SEC could bring enforcement actions against the Company or individuals, including former members of senior management. Such actions, if brought, could result in dispositions, judgments, settlements, fines, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other civil or criminal penalties against the Company or such individuals. We expect to incur additional expenses related to remedial measures, and may incur additional expenses related to fines. The imposition of any sanctions or the implementation of remedial measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, annual and interim results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Furthermore, while the Company intends to defend the lawsuits vigorously, these lawsuits and any other related lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties, the actual cost of such litigation will depend upon many unknown factors and the outcome of the litigation is necessarily uncertain.30Table of ContentsWe have indemnification and expense advancement obligations pursuant to our Bylaws and indemnification agreements with respect to certain current and former members of senior management and the Company’s directors. In connection with the ongoing internal investigation, we have received requests under such indemnification agreements and our Bylaws to provide funds for legal fees and other expenses, and expect additional requests in connection with the investigation and related litigation. We have not recorded any liability for these matters as of June 30, 2018 as we cannot estimate the ultimate outcome at this time but have expensed payments made through June 30, 2018. We have maintained directors and officers insurance, from which a portion of the indemnification expenses and costs related to the putative securities class action complaints may be recoverable, and have recorded an insurance receivable of less than $1 million as of June 30, 2018.See Note 9 for information relating to the ITD Dispute.Many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our customers’ business and provide benefits that are difficult to quantify. Any failure in a customer’s systems or our failure to meet our contractual obligations to our customers, including any breach involving a customer’s confidential information or sensitive data, or our obligations under applicable laws or regulations could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability for damages arising from negligent acts, errors, mistakes, or omissions in rendering our services, there can be no assurance that the limitations of liability set forth in our contracts will be enforceable in all instances or will otherwise protect us from liability for damages. Although we have general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions, there can be no assurance that such coverage will cover all types of claims, continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed or are not covered by our insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.In the normal course of business and in conjunction with certain customer engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify customers or other parties with whom we conduct business with respect to certain matters. These arrangements can include provisions whereby we agree to hold the indemnified party and certain of their affiliated entities harmless with respect to third-party claims related to such matters as our breach of certain representations or covenants, our intellectual property infringement, our gross negligence or willful misconduct or certain other claims made against certain parties. Payments by us under any of these arrangements are generally conditioned on the customer making a claim and providing us with full control over the defense and settlement of such claim. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential liability under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, we have not made payments under these indemnification agreements and therefore they have not had any impact on our operating results, financial position, or cash flows. However, if events arise requiring us to make payment for indemnification claims under our indemnification obligations in contracts we have entered, such payments could have material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Note 14 — Related Party TransactionsBrackett B. Denniston, III was the Interim General Counsel and an executive officer of the Company from December 2016 until May 15, 2017, during which period Mr. Denniston was also a Senior Counsel at the law firm of Goodwin Procter LLP, or Goodwin. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, Goodwin performed legal services for the Company for which it earned approximately $1 million and $3 million, respectively. For such period and other periods when Goodwin was a related party of the Company, the provision of legal services from Goodwin was reviewed and approved by our Audit Committee. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, Goodwin was not a related party of the Company. Our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company’s performance and allocates resources based on segment revenues and operating profit. Segment operating profit is defined as income from operations before unallocated costs. Generally, operating expenses for each operating segment have similar characteristics and are subject to the same factors, pressures and challenges. However, the economic environment and its effects on industries served by our operating segments may affect revenues and operating expenses to differing degrees. In 2018, we made changes to the internal measurement of segment operating profits for the purpose of evaluating segment performance and resource allocation. The primary reason for the changes is to charge to our business segments costs that are directly managed and controlled by them. Specifically, segment operating profit now includes the stock-based compensation expense of sales managers, account executives, account managers and project teams, which was previously included in "unallocated costs." In addition, we have changed the methodology of charging our business segments for the use of our global delivery centers and infrastructure from a fixed per employee charge to a variable per employee charge that differs depending on location and assets deployed. Certain selling, general and administrative expenses, excess or shortfall of incentive compensation for delivery personnel as compared to target, costs related to our realignment program, a portion of depreciation and amortization and the impact of the settlements of our cash flow hedges are not allocated to individual segments in internal management reports used by the chief operating decision maker. Accordingly, such expenses are excluded from segment operating profit and are separately disclosed as “unallocated costs” and adjusted against our total income from operations. Additionally, management has determined that it is not practical to allocate identifiable assets by segment, since such assets are used interchangeably among the segments.As described in Note 3 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements, on January 1, 2018, we adopted the New Revenue Standard, using the modified retrospective method. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Executive SummaryWe are one of the world’s leading professional services companies. We are in business to help our customers adapt, compete and grow in the face of continual shifts and disruptions within their markets. We do so by partnering with them to apply technology to transform their business, operating, and technology models, allowing them to achieve the full value of digitizing their entire enterprises. We call this being “digital at scale.” When implemented, it enables customers to achieve more efficient and effective operations while reshaping their business models for innovation and growth. Our industry-based, consultative approach helps customers envision, build and run more innovative and efficient businesses. We tailor our services and solutions to specific industries and use an integrated global delivery model that employs customer service teams based at customer locations and delivery teams located at dedicated global and regional delivery centers.In 2017, we began a realignment of our business to improve the overall efficiency of our operations while continuing to drive revenue growth. As a continuation of this realignment program, we intend to take additional actions during the remainder of 2018 to further improve our cost structure primarily by optimizing our resource pyramid. As a result of these actions, we expect to incur $25 million to $35 million in severance costs during the remainder of 2018. The final amount and timing of these charges is uncertain and may change as the severance program continues to develop. We believe the above actions and strategies will enable us to gradually expand our non-GAAP operating margins1 with the goal of achieving 22% non-GAAP operating margin1 in 2019. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in achieving the objectives of these plans or that other factors beyond our control, including the various risks set forth in "Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, will not cause us to fail to achieve the targeted improvements. In February 2017, we announced a plan to return $3.4 billion to our stockholders over a two-year period. To date, as part of this plan, we have repurchased $2.7 billion of stock through accelerated stock repurchase agreements, or ASRs, and paid dividends of $501 million. In May 2017, we initiated a quarterly cash dividend and, in February 2018, we increased our quarterly dividend to $0.20 per share from $0.15 per share. On an ongoing basis, we review our capital return plan, considering our financial performance and liquidity position, investments required to execute our strategic initiatives, the economic outlook, regulatory changes and other relevant factors. We are currently evaluating the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or Tax Reform Act, on our capital return plan.On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC Topic 606, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” or New Revenue Standard, using the modified retrospective method. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting policies. For the three months ended June 30, 2018, adoption of the New Revenue Standard had a positive impact on revenue of $31 million, income from operations of $38 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.05 per share. See Note 3 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for additional information. 1Non-GAAP operating margin is not a measurement of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. ◦Revenues from our Rest of Europe customers increased 30.9% inclusive of a positive currency impact of 7.1% and revenues from a new strategic customer acquired in the third quarter of 2017. ◦Revenues from our United Kingdom customers increased 7.3% inclusive of a positive currency impact of 5.8%. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.35Table of Contents•Continued expansion of the market for global delivery of technology and business process services; and•Increased penetration at existing customers, including strategic customers.Our customers seek to meet a dual mandate of achieving more efficient and effective operations, while investing in digital technologies that are reshaping their business models. Increasingly, the relative emphasis among our customers is shifting towards investment and innovation, as reflected in accelerated demand for our digital services. We continue to see demand for larger, more complex projects that are transformational for our customers, including managed services contracts. Such contracts may have longer sales cycles and ramp-up periods and could lead to greater period-to-period variability in our operating results. We increased the number of strategic customers by 7 during the quarter, bringing the total number of our strategic customers to 371. This funding was reported in "Selling, general and administrative expenses" in our consolidated statements of operations and was excluded from our non-GAAP income from operations3, non-GAAP operating margin3 and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share3 as it is not expected to recur at this magnitude in the foreseeable future.Our operating margin increased to 16.7% for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 from 16.5% for the quarter ended June 30, 2017, while our non-GAAP operating margin for the same period increased to 22.0%3 from 20.0%3. The increases in both our GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins were due to a decrease, as a percentage of revenues, in compensation and benefit costs as revenue growth outpaced headcount growth and the depreciation of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by an increase in fees paid to strategic partners and other vendors related to our managed services and digital products and lower gains on settlement of our cash flow hedges in 2018 compared to 2017. Our GAAP operating margin was further negatively impacted by the initial funding of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation and the increase in amortization expense due to recent acquisitions. For the remainder of 2018, we expect our GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins to trend lower than the second quarter of 2018 as we absorb increased costs related to our annual salary revision and promotion cycles and other planned investments.On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted the Tax Reform Act, which significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax law for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. During the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded a one-time provisional net income tax expense of $617 million, which reflects certain assumptions based upon our interpretation of the Tax Reform Act and may change, possibly materially, as we receive additional clarification and guidance and as the interpretation of the Tax Reform Act evolves over time. During 2018, we have not recorded any adjustments to the one-time provisional net income tax expense. We anticipate completing the accounting for the Tax Reform Act within the measurement period. See Note 9 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for additional information.As previously disclosed, the Company is conducting an internal investigation focused on whether certain payments relating to Company-owned facilities in India were made improperly and in possible violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other applicable laws. The investigation is also examining various other payments made in small amounts in India that may not have complied with Company policy or applicable law. In September 2016, we voluntarily notified the Department of Justice, or DOJ, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and are cooperating fully with both agencies. The investigation is being conducted under the oversight of the Audit Committee, with the assistance of outside counsel. To date, the investigation has identified a total of approximately $6 million in payments made between 2009 and 2016 that may have been improper. In 2016, we recorded an out-of-period correction related to $4 million of such payments that had been previously capitalized that should have been expensed. There were no adjustments recorded during 2018 or 2017 related to the amounts under investigation. In 2016, there were putative securities class action complaints filed, naming us and certain of our current and former officers as defendants and alleging violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, based on allegedly false or misleading statements related to potential violations of the FCPA, our business, prospects and operations, and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Additionally, in 2017 and 2016, putative shareholder derivative complaints were filed, naming us, certain of our current and former directors and certain of our current and former officers as defendants. See the section titled "Part II, Item 1. Legal Proceedings." During the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, we incurred $3 million and $8 million, respectively, in costs related to the FCPA investigation and related lawsuits. We expect to continue to incur expenses related to these matters. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.36Table of ContentsWe are involved in an ongoing dispute with the Indian Income Tax Department, or ITD, in connection with which we received a notice in March 2018 asserting that the ITD is owed additional taxes on our previously disclosed 2016 India Cash Remittance, the transaction undertaken by our principal operating subsidiary in India, or CTS India, to repurchase shares from its shareholders, which are non-Indian Cognizant entities, valued at $2.8 billion. As a result of that transaction, undertaken pursuant to a plan approved by the Madras High Court in Chennai, India, we previously paid $135 million in Indian income taxes, which we believe are all the applicable taxes owed for this transaction under Indian law. Accordingly, we have not recorded any reserves for these matters as of June 30, 2018. The ITD Dispute is ongoing, and no final decision has been reached. While we believe that we have paid all applicable taxes related to the transactions underlying the ITD Dispute, if it is ultimately determined that we are liable for the full amount of additional taxes the ITD alleges we owe, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In March 2018, the ITD placed an attachment on certain of our India bank accounts, relating to the 2016 India Cash Remittance. In April 2018, the Madras High Court granted our application for a stay of the actions of the ITD and lifted the ITD’s attachment of our bank accounts. This amount is presented in "Other current assets" on our consolidated statement of financial position. We have classified affected time deposits as restricted assets and reported them in “Short-term investments” on our consolidated statement of financial position. As of June 30, 2018, the restricted time deposits balance was $419 million, including accumulated interest. See Note 9 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for additional information. We finished the second quarter of 2018 with approximately 268,900 employees, which is an increase of approximately 12,100 as compared to June 30, 2017. Annualized turnover, including both voluntary and involuntary, was approximately 22.6% for the three months ended June 30, 2018. The majority of our turnover occurs in India. The higher than usual annualized turnover rate reflects the highly competitive labor market in our industry in the geographies in which we compete for talent, including India. Annualized attrition rates on-site at customers are below our global attrition rate. In addition, attrition is weighted towards the more junior members of our staff. Our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company’s performance and allocates resources based on segment revenues and operating profit. Segment operating profit is defined as income from operations before unallocated costs. Generally, operating expenses for each operating segment have similar characteristics and are subject to the same factors, pressures and challenges. However, the economic environment and its effects on industries served by our operating segments may affect revenues and operating expenses to differing degrees. In 2018, we made changes to the internal measurement of segment operating profits for the purpose of evaluating segment performance and resource allocation. The primary reason for the changes is to charge to our business segments costs that are directly managed and controlled by them. Specifically, segment operating profit now includes the stock-based compensation expense of sales managers, account executives, account managers and project teams, which was previously included in "unallocated costs." In addition, we have changed the methodology of charging our business segments for the use of our global delivery centers and infrastructure from a fixed per employee charge to a variable per employee charge that differs depending on location and assets deployed. We have reported our segment operating profits using the new measurement methodology and have restated the prior period results to conform to the new methodology. Certain selling, general and administrative expenses, excess or shortfall of incentive compensation for delivery personnel as compared to target, costs related to our realignment program, a portion of depreciation and amortization and the impact of the settlements of our cash flow hedges are not allocated to individual segments in internal management reports used by the chief operating decision maker. Accordingly, such expenses are excluded from segment operating profit and are separately disclosed as “unallocated costs” and adjusted against our total income from operations.We provide a significant volume of services to many customers in each of our business segments. Therefore, a loss of a significant customer or a few significant customers in a particular segment could materially reduce revenues for that segment. However, no individual customer accounted for sales in excess of 10% of our consolidated revenues for the periods ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. In addition, the services we provide to our larger customers are often critical to the operations of such customers. As such, we believe that a termination of our services would in many instances require an extended transition period with gradually declining revenues. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting policies. For the three months ended June 30, 2018, adoption of the New Revenue Standard had a positive impact on revenue of $31 million, income from operations of $38 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.05 per share. See Note 3 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for additional information. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.Revenues - OverallOur revenue growth was primarily attributed to services related to integration of digital technologies that are reshaping our customers' business, operating and technology models to align with shifts in consumer preferences, increased customer spending on discretionary projects, continued interest in using our global delivery model as a means to reduce overall technology and operations costs and continued penetration in all our geographic markets. Revenues from customers added since June 30, 2017 were $126 million and represented 37.5% of the period-over-period revenue increase.Our consulting and technology services revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased by 6.0% compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 and represented 57.1% of total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018. Our outsourcing services revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased by 13.6% and constituted 42.9% of total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018. On January 1, 2018, we adopted the New Revenue Standard using the modified retrospective method. For the three months ended June 30, 2018, adoption of the New Revenue Standard had a positive impact on revenue of $31 million. See Note 3 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for additional information. See Note 3 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for additional information.Financial ServicesRevenues from our Financial Services segment grew 4.5%, inclusive of a positive currency impact of 1.0%, for the three months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017. Growth was stronger among our insurance customers where revenues increased by $54 million as compared to an increase of $9 million for our banking customers. In this segment, revenues from customers added since June 30, 2017 were $36 million and represented 57.1% of the period-over-period revenues increase in this segment. Key areas of focus for our Financial Services customers included the adoption and integration of digital technologies that are reshaping our customers' business and operating models, cost optimization, robotic process automation, cyber security and vendor consolidation. Demand from certain banking customers may continue to be negatively affected by their ongoing efforts to optimize the cost of supporting their systems and operations as they shift their spend to transformation and digital services.HealthcareRevenues from our Healthcare segment grew 10.1% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017. Growth was stronger among our healthcare customers where revenues increased by $100 million, including revenues from Bolder Healthcare Solutions acquired in the second quarter of 2018 and a new strategic customer acquired in the third quarter of 2017, as compared to an increase of $6 million for our life sciences customers. Revenues from customers added since June 30, 2017 were $52 million and represented 49.1% of the period-over-period revenues increase in this segment. The demand for our services among life science customers has been affected by reduced discretionary spending. The demand for our services among healthcare customers may continue to be affected by uncertainty in the regulatory environment. We believe that in the long term the healthcare industry continues to present a significant growth opportunity due to factors that are transforming the industry, including the changing regulatory environment, increasing focus on medical costs, and the consumerization of healthcare. Products and ResourcesRevenues from our Products and Resources segment grew 12.4%, inclusive of a positive currency impact of 1.7%, for the three months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017. Revenue growth in this segment was strongest among our manufacturing and logistics customers and energy and utilities customers where revenues increased by a combined $66 million. Revenues from our retail and consumer goods customers and travel and hospitality customers increased by a combined $27 million. Revenues from customers added since June 30, 2017 were $31 million, representing 33.3% of the period-over-period revenue increase in this segment. Demand within this segment continues to be driven by increased adoption 40Table of Contentsof digital technologies that are reshaping our customers' business and operating models, as well as growing demand for analytics, supply chain consulting, implementation initiatives, smart products, transformation of business models, internet of things and omni channel commerce implementation and integration services. Discretionary spending by our retail customers has been and may continue to be affected by weakness in the retail sector.Communications, Media and TechnologyRevenues from our Communications, Media and Technology segment grew 15.8%, inclusive of a positive currency impact of 1.5%, for the three months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017. Revenue growth was $59 million among our technology customers and $15 million among our communications and media customers. Revenues from customers added since June 30, 2017 were $7 million and represented 9.5% of the period-over-period revenue increase in this segment. Growth within this segment was driven by the increased adoption of digital technologies, digital content operations, services to help our customers balance rationalizing costs while creating a differentiated user experience and an expanded range of services, including business process services. See Note 3 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for additional information.North America continues to be our largest market, representing 76.6% of total revenues for the second quarter of 2018, and 64.3% of total revenue growth from the second quarter of 2017. Revenues from our customers in Europe grew 19.2% inclusive of a positive currency impact of 6.4%. Specifically, revenues from our Rest of Europe customers, increased 30.9% inclusive of a positive currency impact of 7.1%, while within the United Kingdom we experienced an increase in revenues of 7.3% inclusive of a positive currency impact of 5.8%. Revenues from our Rest of World customers grew 3.8% in the second quarter of 2018. Revenue growth in the United Kingdom and Rest of World was negatively affected by weakness in the banking sector in those regions. We believe that Europe, India, Middle East, Asia Pacific and Latin America will continue to be areas of significant investment for us as we see these regions as long term growth opportunities. Our cost of revenues increased by 6.9% during the second quarter of 2018 as compared to the second quarter of 2017, decreasing as a percentage of revenues to 60.3% in the second quarter of 2018 compared to 61.6% in the second quarter of 2017. The decrease as a percentage of revenues was due primarily to a decrease in compensation and benefits as revenue growth outpaced headcount growth and the depreciation of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by an increase in fees paid to strategic partners and other vendors related to our managed services and digital products and lower realized gains on our cash flow hedges in 2018 compared to 2017. Compensation and benefits costs increased by $66 million when compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, as the number of our technical personnel increased.41Table of ContentsSelling, General and Administrative ExpensesSelling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, incentive-based compensation, stock-based compensation expense, employee benefits, immigration, travel, marketing, communications, management, finance, administrative and occupancy costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased by 14.4% during the second quarter of 2018 as compared to the second quarter of 2017, increasing as a percentage of revenues to 22.9% in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to 21.9% in the second quarter of 2017. The increase as a percentage of revenues was due primarily to the initial funding of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation and increases in amortization expense due to recent acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease in compensation and benefit costs.Income from Operations and Operating Margin - OverallIncome from operations increased 10.6% in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to the second quarter of 2017. Our operating margin increased to 16.7% for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 from 16.5% for the quarter ended June 30, 2017, primarily due to a decrease, as a percentage of revenues, in compensation and benefit costs as revenue growth outpaced headcount growth and the depreciation of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by the initial funding of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation, an increase in fees paid to strategic partners and other vendors related to our managed services and digital products, an increase in amortization expense due to the recent acquisitions and lower gains on settlement of our cash flow hedges in 2018 compared to 2017. Excluding the impact of applicable designated cash flow hedges, the depreciation of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar positively impacted our operating margin by approximately 66 basis points or 0.66 percentage points in the three months ended June 30, 2018. Each additional 1.0% change in the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar will have the effect of moving our operating margin by approximately 17 basis points or 0.17 percentage points. We entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain Indian rupee denominated payments in India. These hedges are intended to mitigate the volatility of the changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Indian rupee. During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the settlement of our cash flow hedges positively impacted our operating margin by approximately 52 basis points or 0.52 percentage points as compared to a positive impact of approximately 95 basis points or 0.95 percentage points during the three months ended June 30, 2017.For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, our non-GAAP operating margins were 22.0%4 and 20.0%4, respectively. As set forth in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section below, our non-GAAP operating margin excludes stock based compensation expense, acquisition-related charges, realignment charges and in the second quarter of 2018, the initial funding of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation.For the remainder of 2018, we expect our GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins to trend lower than the second quarter of 2018 as we absorb increased costs related to our annual salary revision and promotion cycles and other planned investments.Segment Operating Profit In 2018, we made changes to the internal measurement of segment operating profits for the purpose of evaluating segment performance and resource allocation. The primary reason for the changes is to charge to our business segments costs that are directly managed and controlled by them. Specifically, segment operating profit now includes the stock-based compensation expense of sales managers, account executives, account managers and project teams, which was previously included in "unallocated costs." In addition, we have changed the methodology of charging our business segments for the use of our global delivery centers and infrastructure from a fixed per employee charge to a variable per employee charge that differs depending on location and assets deployed. The gains and losses on our foreign exchange forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments relate to the realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign exchange forward contracts entered into primarily to offset foreign currency exposure to the Indian rupee and other non-U.S. dollar denominated net monetary assets and liabilities. As of June 30, 2018, the notional value of our undesignated hedges was $432 million. The increase in interest income of $9 million was primarily attributable to an increase in average invested balances and higher yields in 2018.Provision for Income TaxesThe provision for income taxes increased to $168 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018 from $165 million during the three months ended June 30, 2017. The effective income tax rate increased to 27.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 from 26.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 primarily due to a higher effective income tax rate for our India subsidiaries resulting from the foreign currency exchange gains on their statutory books as the Indian rupee depreciated against the U.S. dollar. The estimate of our 2018 annual effective income tax rate reflects the current interpretation of the Tax Reform Act, including the GILTI provision and may change as we receive additional clarification and guidance and as the interpretation of the Tax Reform Act evolves over time.43Table of ContentsNet IncomeNet income decreased to $456 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 from $470 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017, representing 11.4% and 12.8% of revenues, respectively. The decrease in net income is primarily due to foreign currency exchange losses in 2018 compared to gains in 2017, partially offset by an increase in income from operations.Non-GAAP Financial MeasuresPortions of our disclosure, including the following table, include non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP operating margin, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures should be read in conjunction with our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. The reconciliations of Cognizant’s non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures should be carefully evaluated.Our non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin exclude stock-based compensation expense, acquisition-related charges, realignment charges and, in the second quarter of 2018, the initial funding of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation. Our definition of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share excludes net non-operating foreign currency exchange gains or losses and the effect of recognition in the first quarter of 2017 of an income tax benefit previously unrecognized in our consolidated financial statements related to a specific uncertain tax position, in addition to excluding stock-based compensation expense, acquisition-related charges, realignment charges and, in the second quarter of 2018, the initial funding of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation. Our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is additionally adjusted for the income tax impact of the above items, as applicable. The income tax impact of each item is calculated by applying the statutory rate and local tax regulations in the jurisdiction in which the item was incurred.We believe providing investors with an operating view consistent with how we manage the Company provides enhanced transparency into the operating results of the Company. For our internal management reporting and budgeting purposes, we use various GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision making, to evaluate period-to-period comparisons, to determine portions of the compensation for our executive officers and for making comparisons of our operating results to those of our competitors. In addition, due to a variety of award types, valuation methodologies and subjective assumptions that affect the calculations of stock-based compensation expense, we believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense allows for more accurate comparisons of our operating results to those of our competitors. Therefore, it is our belief that the use of non-GAAP financial measures excluding these costs provides a meaningful supplemental measure for investors to evaluate our financial performance. Accordingly, we believe that the presentation of non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, when read in conjunction with our reported GAAP results, can provide useful supplemental information to our management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations.A limitation of using non-GAAP financial measures versus financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is that non-GAAP measures do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our operating results as determined in accordance with GAAP and exclude costs that are recurring, namely stock-based compensation expense, certain acquisition-related charges, and net non-operating foreign currency exchange gains or losses. In addition, other companies may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than us, thereby limiting the usefulness of these non-GAAP financial measures as a comparative tool. The total costs related to the realignment are reported in "Selling, general and administrative expenses" in our consolidated statements of operations. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting policies. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, adoption of the New Revenue Standard had a positive impact on revenue of $52 million, income from operations of $67 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.09 per share. See Note 3 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for additional information. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.Revenues - OverallOur revenue growth was primarily attributed to services related to integration of digital technologies that are reshaping our customers' business, operating and technology models to align with shifts in consumer preferences, increased customer spending on discretionary projects, continued interest in using our global delivery model as a means to reduce overall technology and operations costs and continued penetration in all our geographic markets. Revenues from customers added since June 30, 2017 were $183 million and represented 26.1% of the period-over-period revenue increase.Our consulting and technology services revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by 8.3% compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017 and represented 57.5% of total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018. Our outsourcing services revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by 11.7% and constituted 42.5% of total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018. On January 1, 2018, we adopted the New Revenue Standard using the modified retrospective method. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, adoption of the New Revenue Standard had a positive impact on revenue of $52 million. See Note 3 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for additional information. See Note 3 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for additional information.Financial ServicesRevenues from our Financial Services segment grew 5.3%, inclusive of a positive currency impact of 1.6%, for the six months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017. Growth was stronger among our insurance customers where revenues increased by $109 million as compared to an increase of $39 million for our banking customers. In this segment, revenues from customers added since June 30, 2017 were $56 million and represented 37.8% of the period-over-period revenue increase in this segment. Key areas of focus for our Financial Services customers included the adoption and integration of digital technologies that are reshaping our customers' business and operating models, cost optimization, robotic process automation, cyber security and vendor consolidation. Demand from certain banking customers may continue to be negatively affected by their ongoing efforts to optimize the cost of supporting their systems and operations as they shift their spend to transformation and digital services.HealthcareRevenues from our Healthcare segment grew 10.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017. Revenues from our healthcare customers increased by $211 million, including revenues from Bolder Healthcare Solutions acquired in the second quarter of 2018 and a new strategic customer acquired in the third quarter of 2017, while revenue growth among our life sciences customers was $13 million. Revenues from customers added since June 30, 2017 were $66 million and represented 29.5% of the period-over-period revenue increase in this segment. The increase in revenues from our life sciences customers was driven by a growing demand for a broader range of services, including business process services, advanced data analytics and solutions that span multiple service lines while leveraging cloud technologies and platforms. The demand for our services among healthcare customers could be affected by uncertainty in the regulatory environment. We believe that in the long term the healthcare industry continues to present a significant growth opportunity due to factors that are transforming the industry, including the changing regulatory environment, increasing focus on medical costs, and the consumerization of healthcare.Products and ResourcesRevenues from our Products and Resources segment grew 11.9%, inclusive of a positive currency impact of 2.4%, for the six months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017. Revenue growth in this segment was strongest among our energy and utilities customers and manufacturing and logistics customers, where revenues increased by a combined $130 million. Revenues from our retail and consumer goods customers and travel and hospitality customers increased by a combined $47 million. Revenues from customers added since June 30, 2017 were $50 million, representing 28.2% of the period-over-period revenue increase in this segment. Demand within this segment continues to be driven by increased adoption of digital technologies that are reshaping our customers' business and operating models, as well as growing demand for analytics, supply chain consulting, implementation initiatives, smart products, transformation of business models, internet of things and omni channel commerce 47Table of Contentsimplementation and integration services. Discretionary spending by our retail customers has been and may continue to be affected by weakness in the retail sector.Communications, Media and TechnologyRevenues from our Communications, Media and Technology segment grew 17.1%, inclusive of a positive currency impact of 2.4%, for the six months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017. Revenue growth was $112 million among our technology customers and $41 million among our communications and media customers. Revenues from customers added since June 30, 2017 were $11 million and represented 7.2% of the period-over-period revenue increase in this segment. Growth within this segment was driven by the increased adoption of digital technologies, digital content operations, services to help our customers balance rationalizing costs while creating a differentiated user experience and an expanded range of services, including business process services. See Note 3 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for additional information. North America continues to be our largest market, representing 76.3% of total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and accounting for 61.3% of total revenue growth over the six months ended June 30, 2017. Revenues from our customers in Europe grew 20.7%, after a positive currency impact of 9.0%. Specifically, revenues from our Rest of Europe customers grew 31.1% after an positive currency impact of 9.9%, while within the United Kingdom we experienced an increase in revenues of 10.1%, after a positive currency impact of 8.2%. Revenue growth in the United Kingdom was negatively affected by weakness in the banking sector in that region. Revenues from our Rest of World customers grew 7.7%. We believe that Europe, India, Middle East, Asia Pacific and Latin America regions will continue to be areas of significant investment for us as we see these regions as long term growth opportunities. Our cost of revenues increased by 8.1% during the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, decreasing as a percentage of revenues to 60.8% in the first half of 2018 compared to 61.7% in the first half of 2017. The decrease as a percentage of revenues was due primarily to a decrease in compensation and benefits costs as revenue growth outpaced headcount growth, partially offset by an increase in fees paid to strategic partners and other vendors related to our managed services and digital products. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, compensation and benefits costs increased by $245 million as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017.Selling, General and Administrative ExpensesSelling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, incentive-based compensation, stock-based compensation expense, employee benefits, immigration, travel, marketing, communications, management, finance, administrative and occupancy costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased by 9.6% during the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, decreasing as a percentage of revenues to 21.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to 22.0% for the six months ended June 30, 2017. The 48Table of Contentsdecrease as a percentage of revenues was due primarily to efficiencies of leveraging our cost structure over a larger organization, partially offset by the initial funding of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation in the second quarter of 2018.Income from Operations and Operating Margin - OverallIncome from operations increased 15.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017. Our operating margin increased to 17.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 from 16.3% for the six months ended June 30, 2017, due to a decrease, as a percentage of revenues, in compensation and benefits costs as revenue growth outpaced headcount growth, partially offset by the initial funding of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation in the second quarter of 2018 and an increase in fees paid to strategic partners and other vendors related to our managed service and digital products. Excluding the impact of applicable designated cash flow hedges, the appreciation of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar positively impacted our operating margin by approximately 2 basis points or 0.02% percentage points during the six months ended June 30, 2018. Each additional 1.0% change in exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar will have the effect of moving our operating margin by approximately 18 basis points or 0.18 percentage points. We entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain Indian rupee denominated payments in India. These hedges are intended to mitigate the volatility of the changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Indian rupee. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the settlement of cash flow hedges positively impacted our operating margin by approximately 71 basis points or 0.71 percentage points, as compared to a positive impact of approximately 76 basis points or 0.76 percentage points during the six months ended June 30, 2017.For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, our non-GAAP operating margins were 21.2%5 and 19.5%5, respectively. In our Financial Services and Communication, Media and Technology business segments, operating profits decreased as a percentage of revenues due to investments to accelerate our shift to digital. The gains and losses on our foreign exchange forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments relate to the realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign exchange forward contracts entered into primarily to offset foreign currency exposure to the Indian rupee and other non-U.S. dollar denominated net monetary assets and liabilities. As of June 30, 2018, the notional value of our undesignated hedges was $432 million. The increase in interest income of $18 million was primarily attributable to an increase in average invested balances in 2018.Provision for Income TaxesThe provision for income taxes increased to $345 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 from $257 million during the six months ended June 30, 2017. The effective income tax rate increased to 26.1% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 from 20.0% for the six months ended June 30, 2017. The increase in our effective income tax rate was primarily due to the recognition in the first quarter of 2017 of income tax benefits previously unrecognized in our consolidated financial statements related to several uncertain tax positions totaling $72 million and a higher effective income tax rate for our India subsidiaries resulting from the foreign currency exchange gains on their statutory books as the Indian rupee depreciated against the U.S. dollar. The estimate of our 2018 annual effective income tax rate reflects the current interpretation of the Tax Reform Act, including the GILTI provision and may change as we receive additional clarification and guidance and as the interpretation of the Tax Reform Act evolves over time.Net IncomeNet income decreased to $976 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 from $1,027 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, representing 12.3% and 14.2% of revenues, respectively. The total costs related to the realignment are reported in "Selling, general and administrative expenses" in our consolidated statements of operations. The recognition of the benefit in the first quarter of 2017 was based on management’s reassessment regarding whether this unrecognized tax benefit met the more-likely-than-not threshold in light of the lapse in the statute of limitations as to a portion of such benefit.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesCash generated from operations has historically been our primary source of liquidity to fund operations and investments to grow our business. In addition, as of June 30, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $4,247 million, of which $419 million was restricted and not available for use as a result of our dispute with the ITD with respect to our 2016 India Cash Remittance. See Note 9 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements for more information. As of June 30, 2018, we had available capacity under our revolving credit facility of approximately $750 million. On January 1, 2018, we adopted the New Revenue Standard using the modified retrospective method. As a result of adoption, we classify our right to consideration in exchange for deliverables as either a receivable or a contract asset. By contrast, a contract asset is a right to consideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. Balances as of June 30, 2018 are presented under the New Revenue Standard, while prior period balances are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting policies. Historically, our days sales outstanding calculation included billed and unbilled accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, reduced by the uncollected portion of our deferred revenue. To reflect the adoption of the New Revenue Standard and maintain the comparability of the calculation, in 2018 we adjusted the definition to include receivables, as defined by the New Revenue Standard, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and contract assets, reduced by the uncollected portion of our deferred revenue. Our days sales outstanding as of June 30, 2018 was 76 days, higher as compared to 71 days as of December 31, 2017 and 73 days as of June 30, 2017. The adoption of the New Revenue Standard increased our days sales outstanding as of June 30, 2018 by 2 days. We monitor turnover, aging and the collection of accounts receivable by customer. Investing activities The increase in cash used in investing activities is primarily related to higher payments for acquisitions and outflows for capital expenditures in the 2018 period as compared to 2017.Financing activitiesThe decrease in cash used in financing activities in the 2018 period is primarily attributable to lower repurchases of common stock in 2018 compared to the same period in 2017, partially offset by higher dividends paid in 2018 and net repayments under the revolving credit facility in 2018 as compared to net borrowings under the credit facility in the same period in 2017.52Table of ContentsIn 2014, we entered into a credit agreement with a commercial bank syndicate, or the Credit Agreement, providing for a $1,000 million unsecured term loan and a $750 million revolving credit facility. The term loan was used to pay a portion of the cash consideration in connection with our acquisition of TZ US Parent, Inc., or TriZetto. The revolving credit facility is available for general corporate purposes. As of June 30, 2018, we had $750 million outstanding under the term loan and no outstanding notes under the revolving credit facility. The term loan and the revolving credit facility both mature in November 2019 with a final payment of $625 million due on the term loan. While we believe we will have sufficient liquidity to fund the final payment if necessary, we plan to evaluate alternative financing arrangements prior to maturity.The Credit Agreement contains certain negative covenants, including limitations on liens, mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, subsidiary indebtedness and affiliate transactions, as well as certain affirmative covenants. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a debt to total stockholders' equity ratio not in excess of 0.40 to 1.00. As of June 30, 2018, we were in compliance with our debt covenants and have provided a quarterly certification to our lenders to that effect. We believe that we currently meet all conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement to borrow thereunder, and we are not aware of any conditions that would prevent us from borrowing part or all of the remaining available capacity under the revolving credit facility as of June 30, 2018 and through the date of this filing.In February 2017, we announced a plan to return $3.4 billion to stockholders by the end of 2018 through a combination of stock repurchases and cash dividends. As part of this plan, to date we expended $2.7 billion to repurchase our Class A common stock under ASRs and paid cash dividends totaling $501 million. The payments related to the ASRs were funded with cash on hand in the U.S. and borrowings under the revolving credit facility. We are currently evaluating the longer term impact the Tax Reform Act may have on our overall capital return program. As a first step, in February 2018 our Board of Directors approved an increase to our quarterly dividend to $0.20 per share.Our Board of Directors reviews our capital return plan on an ongoing basis with consideration given to our financial performance, economic outlook, regulatory changes and any other relevant factors. The Board of Directors’ determinations regarding future share repurchases and dividends will include evaluating the longer term impact of the Tax Reform Act, as well as a variety of other factors, including our net income, cash flow generated from operations or other sources, liquidity position and potential alternative uses of cash, such as acquisitions, as well as economic conditions and expected future financial results. As these factors may change over time, the amount of stock repurchase activity and actual amount of dividends declared, if any, during any particular period cannot be predicted and may fluctuate from time to time. There can be no guarantee that we will achieve the objective of our announced capital return plan in the amounts or within the expected time frame that we have indicated, or at all.Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Information We seek to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. As part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of our domestic and international cash flows and cash balances. As a result of the enactment of the Tax Reform Act, our historical and future foreign earnings are no longer subject to U.S. federal income tax upon repatriation beyond the one-time transition tax accrued in the fourth quarter of 2017. During the first half of 2018, we repatriated $2,108 million from our foreign subsidiaries. As of June 30, 2018, $2,570 million of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were held outside the United States, of which $1,723 million was held in India. As further described in Note 9 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements, $419 million of our short-term investment balances held in India were classified as restricted as of June 30, 2018. We are continuing to evaluate what portion of the non-U.S. cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside India is needed locally to execute our strategic plans and what amount is available for repatriation back to the United States.Our Indian earnings are indefinitely reinvested and our current plans do not demonstrate the need to repatriate our historical undistributed earnings of our India subsidiaries to fund our liquidity needs outside of India. In reaching this conclusion, we considered our global capital needs, the available sources of liquidity globally and our growth plans in India. However, future events may occur, such as material changes in cash estimates, discretionary transactions, including corporate restructurings, and changes in applicable laws, that may lead us to repatriate Indian earnings. If we were to change our assertion that our accumulated undistributed Indian earnings are indefinitely reinvested, we would expect, based on our current interpretation of Indian tax law, to accrue additional tax expense at a rate of approximately 21% of cash available for distribution, which could have a material adverse effect on our future effective income tax rate. This estimate is subject to change based on tax legislative developments in India and other jurisdictions as well as judicial and interpretive developments of applicable tax laws. We expect to fund the remaining balance of the one-time transition tax related to the Tax Reform Act, which is payable in installments through the year 2024, from a combination of cash generated from operations, borrowings and the repatriation of a portion of our historical non-U.S. earnings that are available for distribution to the United States. Our ability to expand and grow our business in accordance with current plans, to make acquisitions and form joint ventures, to meet our long-term capital requirements beyond a twelve month period and our ability to execute the remainder of our capital return plan will depend on many factors, including the rate, if any, at which our cash flow increases, our ability and willingness to accomplish acquisitions and joint ventures with capital stock and the availability of public and private debt and equity financing. We cannot be certain that additional financing, if required, will be available on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all.As further described in Note 9 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements, certain cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balances in India totaling $419 million were restricted in connection with our dispute with the ITD with respect to our 2016 India Cash Remittance. The dispute with the ITD is ongoing, and no final decision has been reached. The affected balances may continue to remain restricted and unavailable for our use while the dispute is ongoing. Additionally, while we believe that we have paid all applicable taxes related to the transactions underlying the ITD Dispute, if it is ultimately determined that we are liable for the full amount of additional taxes the ITD claims we owe, our liquidity could be materially adversely affected.Commitments and ContingenciesSee Note 13 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsOther than our foreign exchange forward contracts, there were no off-balance sheet transactions, arrangements or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons in the six months ended June 30, 2018 that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.Critical Accounting EstimatesManagement’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our unaudited consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities, including the recoverability of tangible and intangible assets, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates. The most significant estimates relate to the recognition of revenue and profits, including the application of the cost to cost method of measuring progress to completion for certain fixed-price contracts, income taxes, assumptions used in valuing stock-based compensation arrangements, valuation of investments and derivative financial instruments, business combinations, valuation of goodwill and other long-lived assets and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience, current trends and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The actual amounts may differ from the estimates used in the preparation of the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements. For a discussion of our critical accounting estimates, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by, among other things, the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “could,” “would,” “plan,” “intend,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” “should” or “anticipate” or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties. From time to time, we or our representatives have made or may make forward-looking statements, orally or in writing.54Table of ContentsSuch forward-looking statements may be included in various filings made by us with the SEC, or press releases or oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our authorized executive officers. These forward-looking statements, such as statements regarding anticipated future revenues or operating margins, contract percentage completions, earnings, capital expenditures, anticipated effective tax rates, liquidity, access to capital, capital return plan, investment strategies, cost management, realignment program, plans and objectives, including those related to our digital practice areas, investment in our business and potential acquisitions, industry trends, customer behaviors and trends, and the ongoing internal investigation and other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts, are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections, management’s beliefs and certain assumptions made by management, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control. Actual results, performance, achievements and outcomes could differ materially from the results expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.55Table of ContentsYou are advised to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in the reports we file with the SEC, including this report in the section titled “Part I, Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Part I, Item 1. Business” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.There have been no material changes in our quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk from those disclosed in Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 27, 2018.Item 4. OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. Legal ProceedingsSee Note 13 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements.Item 1A. Risk FactorsThere have been no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC on February 27, 2018.Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsIssuer Repurchases of Equity SecuritiesOur existing stock repurchase program, as approved by our Board of Directors, allows for the repurchase of $3.5 billion of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock, excluding fees and expenses, through December 31, 2019. Under the stock repurchase program, the Company is authorized to repurchase its Class A common stock through open market purchases, including under a trading plan adopted pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act, or in private transactions, in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. The timing of repurchases and the exact number of shares to be purchased are determined by the Company’s management, in its discretion, or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan, and will depend upon market conditions and other factors.As of June 30, 2018, the remaining available balance under our stock repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors was $0.8 billion. In May 2018, the purchase period for the ASR ended and an additional 0.7 million shares were delivered. In total, 3.7 million shares were delivered under the ASR at an average repurchase price of $79.95. The total number of shares ultimately delivered and therefore the average price paid per share, will be determined at the end of the purchase period, which is scheduled to end during the third quarter of 2018, based on the volume-weighted average price of the Company's common stock during that period.During the three months ended June 30, 2018, we purchased shares in connection with our stock-based compensation plans, whereby shares of our common stock were tendered by employees for payment of applicable statutory tax withholdings. For the three months ended June 30, 2018, such repurchases totaled 433,947 shares at an aggregate cost of $33 million.57Table of ContentsItem 6.