EmployerIdentification No. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. FINANCIAL INFORMATION Item 1. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations19Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk25Item 4. Controls and Procedures26PART II. OTHER INFORMATION Item 1. Legal Proceedings26Item 1A. Risk Factors26Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds29Item 6. Exhibits30SIGNATURES31Table of ContentsPART I. The Company’s TMOS-based offerings include software products for local and global traffic management, network and application security, access management, web acceleration and a number of other network and application services. These products are available as modules that can run individually or as part of an integrated solution on the Company’s high-performance, scalable, purpose-built BIG-IP appliances and VIPRION chassis-based hardware, or as software-only Virtual Editions. In connection with its products, the Company offers a broad range of support services including consulting, training, installation and maintenance.Basis of PresentationThe year-end consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In the opinion of management, the unaudited consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for their fair statement in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements have been condensed or omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.Certain prior period amounts relating to deferred taxes have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a result of the adoption of ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes. See Note 1 - Recently Adopted Accounting Standards for additional information.Revenue RecognitionThe Company sells products through distributors, resellers, and directly to end users. Evidence of an arrangement generally consists of a purchase order issued pursuant to the terms and conditions of a distributor, reseller or end user agreement.•Delivery has occurred. The Company uses shipping or related documents, or written evidence of customer acceptance, when applicable, to verify delivery or completion of any performance terms.•The sales price is fixed or determinable. The Company assesses whether the sales price is fixed or determinable based on payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment.•Collectability is reasonably assured. The Company assesses collectability primarily based on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and related analysis, as well as the Customer’s payment history.Revenue from the sale of products is generally recognized when the product has been shipped and the customer is obligated to pay for the product. When rights of return are present and the Company cannot estimate returns, revenue is recognized when such rights of return lapse. Payment terms to domestic customers are generally net 30 days to net 45 days. PCS includes a limited period of telephone support, updates, repair or replacement of any failed product or component that fails during the term of the agreement, bug fixes and rights to upgrades, when and if available. Consulting services are customarily billed at fixed hourly rates, plus out-of-pocket expenses, and revenues are recognized as the consulting is completed. The majority of the Company’s products are hardware appliances which contain software essential to the overall functionality of the products. Software revenue recognition guidance requires revenue earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements to be allocated to each element based on the relative fair values of those elements. The fair value of an element must be based on VSOE. Where VSOE of the fair value of delivered elements is not available, revenue is recognized on the “residual method” based on the fair value of undelivered elements. If evidence of fair value of one or more undelivered elements does not exist, all revenue is deferred and recognized at the earlier of the delivery of those elements or the establishment of fair value of the remaining undelivered elements.The Company establishes VSOE for its products, PCS, consulting and training services based on the sales price charged for each element when sold separately. The sales price is discounted from the applicable list price based on various factors including the type of customer, volume of sales, geographic region and program level. The Company’s list prices are generally not fair value as discounts may be given based on the factors enumerated above. The Company uses historical sales transactions to determine whether VSOE can be established for each of the elements. The price of consulting services is not based on the type of customer, volume of sales, geographic region or program level.The Company is typically not able to determine VSOE or TPE for non-software products. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar elements when sold separately. Generally, the Company’s go-to-market strategy differs from that of other competitive products or services in its markets and the Company’s offerings contain a significant level of differentiation such that the comparable pricing of products with similar functionality cannot be obtained. Furthermore, the Company is unable to reliably determine the selling prices on a stand-alone basis of similar products offered by its competitors.When the Company is unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, the Company uses BESP in its allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which the Company would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. The Company has been able to establish BESP through the list price, less a discount deemed appropriate to maintain a reasonable gross margin. Management regularly reviews the gross margin information. Non-software product BESP is determined through the Company’s review of historical sales transactions within the past 12 month period. Additional factors considered in determining an appropriate BESP include, but are not limited to, cost of products, pricing practices, geographies, customer classes, and distribution channels.The Company regularly validates the VSOE of fair value and BESP for elements in its multiple element arrangements. The Company accounts for taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities on a net basis and excluded these amounts from revenues.Goodwill and Acquired Intangible AssetsGoodwill represents the excess purchase price over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired as of the acquisition date. The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests when impairment indicators are identified, and goodwill is written down when impaired. Goodwill was recorded in connection with various acquisitions in fiscal year 2014 and prior years. For its annual goodwill impairment test in all periods to date, the Company has operated under one reporting unit and the fair value of its reporting unit has been determined by the Company’s enterprise value. The Company performs its annual goodwill impairment test during the second fiscal quarter.As described in the "Recently Adopted Accounting Standards" section of Note 1, the Company elected to early adopt ASU 2017-04 for its annual goodwill impairment test that was performed during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. ASU 2017-04 simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill to eliminate Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Instead, under the amendments in this Update, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. For its annual impairment test performed in the second quarter of 8Table of Contentsfiscal 2018, the Company completed a quantitative assessment and determined that there was no impairment of goodwill. The Company also considered potential impairment indicators of goodwill at June 30, 2018 and noted no indicators of impairment. As part of the annual goodwill impairment test, the Company has the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary. Examples of events and circumstances that might indicate that the reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount include macro-economic conditions such as deterioration in the entity’s operating environment or industry or market considerations; entity-specific events such as increasing costs, declining financial performance, or loss of key personnel; or other events such as a sustained decrease in the stock price on either an absolute basis or relative to peers. Otherwise, no further testing will be required. If the Company chooses to bypass the qualitative assessment, it completes a quantitative assessment in performing its annual impairment test.The Company's intangible assets subject to amortization are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, ranging from three to ten years. The Company evaluates the recoverability of intangible assets periodically by taking into account events or circumstances that may warrant revised estimates of useful lives or that indicate the asset may be impaired. The Company considered potential impairment indicators of acquired intangible assets at June 30, 2018 and noted no indicators of impairment.Software Development CostsThe authoritative guidance requires certain internal software development costs related to software to be sold to be capitalized upon the establishment of technological feasibility. The Company's software development costs incurred subsequent to achieving technological feasibility have not been significant, and all software development costs have been expensed as research and development activities as incurred.Internal Use SoftwareIn accordance with the authoritative guidance, the Company capitalizes application development stage costs associated with the development of internal-use software and software developed related to its SaaS-based product offerings. The capitalized costs are then amortized over the estimated useful life of the software, which is generally three to five years, and are included in property and equipment in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.Stock-Based CompensationThe Company accounts for stock-based compensation using the straight-line attribution method for recognizing compensation expense. The Company recognized $38.7 million and $43.2 million of stock-based compensation expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $121.0 million and $133.7 million of stock-based compensationexpense for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of June 30, 2018, there was $139.6 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation cost, the majority of which will be recognized over the next two years. Going forward, stock-based compensation expenses may increase as the Company issues additional equity-based awards to continue to attract and retain key employees. On October 27, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors and Compensation Committee approved 1,086,939 RSUs to employees and executive officers pursuant to the Company’s annual equity awards program. The value of RSUs is determined using the fair value method, which in this case, is based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant.The Company recognizes compensation expense for only the portion of restricted stock units that are expected to vest. Therefore, the Company applies estimated forfeiture rates that are derived from historical employee termination behavior. Based on historical differences with forfeitures of stock-based awards granted to the Company’s executive officers and Board of Directors versus grants awarded to all other employees, the Company has developed separate forfeiture expectations for these two groups. Compensation expense related to the shares issued pursuant to the ESPP is recognized on a straight-line basis over the offering period. The Company issues incentive awards to certain current executive officers as part of its annual equity awards program. Fifty percent of the aggregate number of RSUs issued to executive officers vest in equal quarterly increments, and 50% are subject to the Company achieving specified performance goals. 9Table of ContentsFor the prior year performance stock grants, attainment is based on the Company achieving specific quarterly revenue and EBITDA targets. In each case, 70% of the quarterly performance stock grant is based on achieving at least 80% of the quarterly revenue goal set by the Company's Board of Directors, and the other 30% is based on achieving at least 80% of the quarterly EBITDA goal set by the Company's Board of Directors. The quarterly performance stock grant is paid linearly over 80% of the targeted goals. At least 100% of both goals must be attained in order for the quarterly performance stock grant to be awarded over 100%. Each goal is evaluated individually and subject to the 80% achievement threshold and the 100% over-achievement threshold. Each goal is also capped at achievement of 200% above target. In each case, no vesting or payment with respect to a performance goal shall occur unless a minimum threshold is met for the applicable goal. The Company reassesses the probability of vesting at each balance sheet date and adjusts compensation costs based on the probability assessment.Common Stock RepurchaseOn October 25, 2017, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion for its common stock share repurchase program. This new authorization is incremental to the existing $3.4 billion program, initially approved in October 2010 and expanded in each fiscal year. Acquisitions for the share repurchase programs will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The programs can be terminated at any time. As of June 30, 2018, the Company repurchased and retired 3,210,478 shares at an average price of $140.19 per share during fiscal year 2018 and the Company had $723.6 million remaining authorized to purchase shares at June 30, 2018.Earnings Per ShareBasic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common and dilutive common stock equivalent shares outstanding during the period. The Company adopted ASU 2015-11 during the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. Excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies from share-based compensation are now recorded to the consolidated income statements rather than to additional paid-in capital within equity on a prospective basis. The Company recognized $4.0 million and $5.2 million of tax benefits for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. The Company also elected to prospectively apply the change in presentation requirement wherein excess tax benefits of awards are classified as operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Prior periods have not been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2018 presentation. Under this update, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. The new standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods 11Table of Contentswithin those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. The Company elected to early adopt ASU 2017-04 for its annual goodwill impairment test that was performed during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. ASU 2014-09 and the related amendments outline a new, single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. The new model will require revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The standard can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. The updated standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017 with early adoption permitted for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016.The Company currently plans to adopt ASU 2014-09 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a modified retrospective basis. The Company has initiated an assessment of its systems, data and processes related to the implementation of this accounting standard. Under the new standard, the Company expects to defer and amortize incremental costs to obtain a contract, which are primarily commission costs, over the expected customer life rather than expensing them as incurred under current practice. Additionally, under the new standard, the Company would be required to recognize a portion of term license revenues upfront, at the time of delivery rather than ratably over the related contract period. The Company does not anticipate that the implementation of this updated standard and related amendments will have a material impact on its consolidated income statements. The Company’s leases consist of operating leases for its office and lab spaces. The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. Adoption of the new lease standard requires measurement of leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented on a modified retrospective basis. The new standard will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The Company previously stated that it anticipates early adoption of the new standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue standard. However, after further assessment, the Company has decided to adopt the new standard on its original effective date of October 1, 2019. The Company is currently assessing the impact that this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and footnote disclosures. The new standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. Additionally, amounts for restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents are to be included with cash and cash equivalents if the cash flow statement includes a reconciliation of the total cash balances for a reporting period. The new standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted for certain transactions. The new standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. This ASU does not change the accounting for modifications but clarifies that modification accounting guidance should only be applied if there is a change to the value, vesting conditions or award classification and would not be required if the changes are considered non-substantive. The new standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.2. These inputs reflect management’s assumptions of what market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.Level 1 investments are valued based on quoted market prices in active markets and include the Company’s cash equivalent investments. Level 2 investments, which include investments that are valued based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, broker or dealer quotations, actual trade data, benchmark yields or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency, include the Company’s certificates of deposit, corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds and notes, U.S. government securities, U.S. government agency securities and international government securities. Fair values for the Company’s level 2 investments are based on similar assets without applying significant judgments. In addition, all of the Company’s level 2 investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments.A financial instrument’s level within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement. However, the determination of what constitutes “observable” requires significant judgment by the Company. The Company’s non-financial assets and liabilities, which include goodwill, intangible assets, and long-lived assets, are not required to be carried at fair value on a recurring basis. These non-financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis when there is an indicator of impairment, and they are recorded at fair value only when impairment is recognized. The Company reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment annually, during the second quarter of each fiscal year, or as circumstances indicate the possibility of impairment. The Company monitors the carrying value of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying amount may not be recoverable. During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company did not recognize any impairment charges related to goodwill, intangible assets, or long-lived assets.14Table of ContentsThe carrying amounts of other current financial assets and other current financial liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term nature.3. The Company reviews the individual securities in its portfolio to determine whether a decline in a security's fair value below the amortized cost basis is other-than-temporary. The Company determined that as of June 30, 2018, there were no investments in its portfolio that were other-than-temporarily impaired.4. InventoriesThe Company outsources the manufacturing of its pre-configured hardware platforms to contract manufacturers, who assemble each product to the Company’s specifications. As protection against component shortages and to provide replacement parts for its service teams, the Company also stocks limited supplies of certain key product components. The Company reduces inventory to net realizable value based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by historical usage and forecasted demand. Commitments and ContingenciesGuarantees and Product WarrantiesIn the normal course of business to facilitate sales of its products, the Company indemnifies other parties, including customers, resellers, lessors, and parties to other transactions with the Company, with respect to certain matters. The Company has agreed to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within 16Table of Contentswhich an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors and certain other employees, and the Company’s bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to the Company’s agents. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.The Company generally offers warranties of one year for hardware for those customers without service contracts, with the option of purchasing additional warranty coverage in yearly increments. The Company accrues for warranty costs as part of its cost of sales based on associated material product costs and technical support labor costs. Accrued warranty costs as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 were not considered material.CommitmentsAs of June 30, 2018, the Company’s principal commitments consisted of obligations outstanding under operating leases. The Company leases its facilities under operating leases that expire at various dates through 2033. There have been no material changes in the Company's lease obligations compared to those discussed in Note 7 to its annual consolidated financial statements.The Company currently has arrangements with contract manufacturers and other suppliers for the manufacturing of its products. The arrangement with the primary contract manufacturer allows them to procure component inventory on the Company’s behalf based on a rolling production forecast provided by the Company. The Company is obligated to the purchase of component inventory that the contract manufacturer procures in accordance with the forecast, unless it gives notice of order cancellation in advance of applicable lead times. The Company’s complaint seeks a jury trial and an unspecified amount of monetary damages, as well as interest, costs, and injunctive relief. Radware moved to dismiss the allegations of one patent but the motion was denied. Radware has filed a counterclaim separately asserting that the Company is infringing U.S. patent no. 9,231,853, an ISP link load balancing patent related to the patents previously asserted by Radware in litigation in California that has been completed. Radware claims that the Company's BIG-IP product infringes. The counterclaim seeks injunctive relief and unspecified damages. The Company has denied infringement and asserted that the '853 patent is invalid. All of Radware's IPRs were denied and the Company’s IPR against the ‘853 patent resulted in cancellation of all but four of the ‘853 claims and the allowance of one new claim. The Court has entered a schedule for trial in November of 2019. Radware has indicated that it will seek a preliminary injunction to preclude infringement of the claims that survived the IPR.In addition to the above referenced matters, the Company is subject to other legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Management believes that the Company has meritorious defenses to the allegations made in its pending cases and intends to vigorously defend these lawsuits; however, the Company is unable currently to determine the ultimate outcome of these or similar matters or the potential exposure to loss, if any. The Company has not recorded an accrual for loss contingencies associated with the legal proceedings or the investigations discussed above. 17Table of Contents6. Income TaxesThe effective tax rate was 20.4% and 27.8% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to 31.1% and 32.4% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 includes various impacts from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017. These impacts include a reduction in the U.S. federal income tax rate from 35.0% to 24.5%, partially offset for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 with a $7.0 million provisional tax expense for the deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings, and a $11.6 million expense from the remeasurement of the Company’s net deferred tax assets to reflect the change in the U.S. federal income tax rate when temporary differences are expected to reverse. 118, the Company recorded a provisional tax expense of $7.0 million related to the deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings in the period ended December 31, 2017. The Company did not record any adjustments to the provisional tax expense in the period ended June 30, 2018. Additional regulatory guidance may result in a change to the provisional amount. SAB No. 118 provides a one-year measurement period to complete the accounting.At June 30, 2018, the Company had $27.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. It is anticipated that the Company’s existing liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits will change within the next twelve months due to audit settlements or the expiration of statutes of limitations. The Company does not expect these changes to be material to the consolidated financial statements. The Company recognizes interest and, if applicable, penalties for any uncertain tax positions as a component of income tax expense.The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as the income tax of multiple state and foreign jurisdictions. The Company has concluded all U.S. federal income tax matters for fiscal years through September 30, 2014. The Company is currently under audit by the IRS for fiscal year 2016 and by various states for fiscal years 2013 through 2016. Major jurisdictions where there are wholly owned subsidiaries of F5 Networks, Inc. which require income tax filings include the United Kingdom, Japan, Singapore, and Australia. The earliest periods open for review by local taxing authorities are fiscal years 2016 for the United Kingdom, 2012 for Japan, 2013 for Singapore, and 2014 for Australia. Within the next four fiscal quarters, the statute of limitations will begin to close on the fiscal year 2015 federal income tax return, fiscal years 2013, 2014, and 2015 state income tax returns, and fiscal years 2012 to 2016 foreign income tax returns.7. Geographic Sales and Significant CustomersOperating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is available and evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision-maker, or decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company’s chief operating decision-making group reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis accompanied by information about revenues by geographic region. The Company’s foreign offices conduct sales, marketing and support activities. Revenues are attributed by geographic location based on the location of the customer. Subsequent EventsOn July 20, 2018, the Company initiated implementation of a restructuring program to match strategic and financial objectives and optimize resources for long term growth, including a reduction in force program affecting approximately 230 employees. As part of the restructuring, the Company plans to close its Lowell, Massachusetts office and reduce leased office space.The Company estimates expenses relating to these actions at approximately $23.0 million to $25.0 million. The Company currently expects the reduction in force charges, consisting primarily of severance benefits, to be in the range of $20.0 million to $21.5 million; and the lease space reduction, consisting of lease termination and other facility costs, to be in the range of $3.0 million to $3.5 million. The Company anticipates that most of these charges will be recognized in the Company’s fourth fiscal quarter of 2018.Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThe following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our plans, objectives, expectations, strategies, intentions or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and are generally identified by the words “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to revise or update any such forward-looking statements.OverviewWe are a global provider of software-defined application services designed to ensure the fast, secure and reliable delivery of applications and data. We also derive revenues from the sales of services including annual maintenance contracts, training and consulting services. We carefully monitor the sales mix of our revenues within each reporting period. We believe customer acceptance rates of our new products and feature enhancements are indicators of future trends. We also consider overall revenue concentration by customer and by geographic region as additional indicators of current and future trends.•Cost of revenues and gross margins. We strive to control our cost of revenues and thereby maintain our gross margins. Significant items impacting cost of revenues are hardware costs paid to our contract manufacturers, third-party software license fees, Silverline infrastructure, amortization of developed technology and personnel and overhead expenses. Our margins have remained relatively stable; however, factors such as sales price, product and services mix, inventory obsolescence, returns, component price increases and warranty costs could significantly impact our gross margins from quarter to quarter and represent significant indicators we monitor on a regular basis.•Operating expenses. Operating expenses are substantially driven by personnel and related overhead expenses. Existing headcount and future hiring plans are the predominant factors in analyzing and forecasting future operating expense trends. Other significant operating expenses that we monitor include marketing and promotions, travel, professional fees, computer costs related to the development of new products and provision of services, facilities and depreciation expenses.•Liquidity and cash flows. Our financial condition remains strong with significant cash and investments and no long term debt. The increase in cash and investments for the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 was primarily due to cash provided by operating activities of $556.8 million, largely offset by $450.1 million of cash used to repurchase outstanding common stock under our stock repurchase program. Going forward, we believe the primary driver of cash flows will be net income from operations. Capital expenditures of $36.1 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 were primarily related to the expansion of our facilities to support our operations worldwide as well as investments in information technology infrastructure and equipment purchases to support our core business activities. We will continue to evaluate possible acquisitions of, or investments in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe are strategic, which may require the use of cash.•Balance sheet. We view cash, short-term and long-term investments, deferred revenue, accounts receivable balances and days sales outstanding as important indicators of our financial health. Deferred revenues increased in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 due to growth in the amount of annual maintenance contracts purchased on new products and maintenance renewal contracts related to our existing product installation base. Our days sales outstanding for the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 was 49.Summary of Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe preparation of our financial condition and results of operations requires us to make judgments and estimates that may have a significant impact upon our financial results. Critical accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Form 10-K. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.20Table of ContentsResults of OperationsThe following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, related notes and risk factors included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Total net revenues increased 4.7% and 3.0% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, from the same periods in the prior year. Overall revenue growth for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, was primarily due to increased service revenues as a result of our increased installed base of products. International revenues represented 49.3% and 49.6% of total net revenues for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to 47.9% and 49.0% for the same periods in the prior year, respectively. We expect international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of net revenues, although we cannot provide assurance that international revenues as a percentage of net revenues will remain at current levels.Net product revenues increased 1.6% for the three months ended June 30, 2018, from the same period in the prior year. The increase in net product revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was due to an increase of $4.8 million in sales of our ADN products from the same period in the prior year. Net product revenues decreased 1.7% for the nine months ended June 30, 2018, from the same period in the prior year. The decrease in net product revenues for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was due to a decrease of $10.8 million in sales of our ADN products from the same period in the prior year.Net service revenues increased 7.3% and 7.0% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, from the same periods in the prior year. Cost of net product revenues consist of finished products purchased from our contract manufacturers, manufacturing overhead, freight, warranty, provisions for excess and obsolete inventory and amortization expenses in connection with developed technology from acquisitions. Cost of net product revenues increased 3.1% and 2.4% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, from the comparable periods in the prior year. The increase in cost of net product revenues for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 is due to an increase in payments to our contract manufacturers due to global memory shortages, additional investments in our subscription-based software services, and product transitions away from older generation appliances to the new iSeries platform.Cost of net service revenues. Cost of net service revenues consist of the salaries and related benefits of our professional services staff, travel, facilities and depreciation expenses. For both the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, cost of net service revenues as a percentage of net service revenues was 15.1%, compared to 16.3% and 16.0% for the same periods in the prior year, respectively. The decrease in cost of net service revenues as a percentage of net service revenues is primarily due to the scalability of our existing customer support infrastructure and increased revenue from maintenance contracts. Professional services headcount at the end of June 2018 decreased to 906 from 919 at the end of June 2017. Sales and marketing expenses consist of salaries, commissions and related benefits of our sales and marketing staff, the costs of our marketing programs, including public relations, advertising and trade shows, travel, facilities, and depreciation expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased 3.0% and 2.8% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, from the comparable periods in the prior year. The increase in sales and marketing expense was primarily due to an increase of $3.9 million and $7.6 million in commissions for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, from the comparable periods in the prior year. Sales and marketing headcount at the end of June 2018 decreased to 1,721 from 1,794 at the end of June 2017 due to a reduction in workforce that took place in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017. Sales and marketing expense included stock-based compensation expense of $16.2 million and $47.2 million for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to $17.5 million and $52.7 million for the same periods in the prior year, respectively.Research and development. Research and development expenses consist of the salaries and related benefits of our product development personnel, prototype materials and other expenses related to the development of new and improved products, facilities and depreciation expenses. Research and development expenses increased 6.2% and 2.3% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, from the comparable periods in the prior year. The increase in research and development expense was primarily due to an increase of $2.5 million and $4.1 million in personnel costs for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, from the comparable periods in the prior year. In addition, fees paid to outside consultants for research and development services increased $2.6 million and $4.8 million for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, from the comparable periods in the prior year. Research and development headcount at the end of June 2018 increased to 1,284 from 1,240 at the end of June 2017. Research and development expense included stock-based compensation expense of $11.5 million and $36.4 million for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to $13.6 million and $41.4 million for the same periods in the prior year, respectively. We expect research and development expenses to remain consistent as a percentage of net revenue in the foreseeable future. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of the salaries, benefits and related costs of our executive, finance, information technology, human resource and legal personnel, third-party professional service fees, bad debt charges, facilities and depreciation expenses. General and administrative expenses remained relatively flat for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, from the comparable periods in the prior year. General and administrative headcount at the end of June 2018 remained consistent at 467 compared with the end of June 2017. Other income, net consists primarily of interest income and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other income, net remained relatively flat for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, from the comparable periods in the prior year. Provision for income taxes. The effective tax rate was 20.4% and 27.8% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, compared to 31.1% and 32.4% for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 is primarily due to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017. Significant impacts include a reduction in the U.S. federal income tax rate from 35.0% to 24.5%, partially offset for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 with a tax on the deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017 and a remeasurement of the Company’s net deferred tax assets. Several provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act are not effective for the Company until fiscal year 2019, including a further reduction in the U.S. federal income tax rate to 21%, a deduction for foreign derived intangible income, and repeal of the deduction for income attributable to domestic production activities.We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In making these determinations we consider historical and projected taxable income, and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the appropriateness of a valuation allowance. Our net deferred tax assets at June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017 were $35.1 million and $50.5 million, respectively. The net deferred tax assets include valuation allowances of $19.6 million and $16.4 million as of June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively, which are primarily related to tax net operating losses incurred in certain foreign jurisdictions, and state tax carryforwards.Our worldwide effective tax rate may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including variations in projected taxable income in the various geographic locations in which we operate, changes in the valuation of our net deferred tax assets, resolution of potential exposures, tax positions taken on tax returns filed in the various geographic locations in which we operate, and the introduction of new accounting standards or changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof in the various geographic locations in which we operate. We have recorded liabilities to address potential tax exposures related to business and income tax positions we have taken that could be challenged by taxing authorities. The ultimate resolution of these potential exposures may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded which could result in an adjustment to our future tax expense.In accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, the Company recorded a provisional tax expense related to the deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings. Additional regulatory guidance may result in a change to the provisional amount.24Table of ContentsLiquidity and Capital ResourcesCash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments totaled $1,413.9 million as of June 30, 2018, compared to $1,301.7 million as of September 30, 2017, representing an increase of $112.2 million. The increase was primarily due to cash provided by operating activities of $556.8 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2018, which was largely offset by $450.1 million of cash used for the repurchase of outstanding common stock under our stock repurchase program. Cash provided by operating activities for the first nine months of fiscal year 2018 resulted from net income of $320.8 million combined with changes in operating assets and liabilities, as adjusted for various non-cash items including stock-based compensation, deferred revenue, depreciation and amortization charges. Based on our current operating and capital expenditure forecasts, we believe that our existing cash and investment balances, together with cash generated from operations should be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months.Cash used in investing activities was $227.9 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2018, compared to cash provided by investing activities of $47.1 million for the same period in the prior year. Investing activities include purchases, sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities, business acquisitions, capital expenditures and changes in restricted cash requirements. The amount of cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily the result of the purchase of investments and capital expenditures related to the build-out of our new corporate headquarters and the expansion of our international facilities, partially offset by the sale and maturity of investments.Cash used in financing activities was $401.2 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2018, compared to cash used in financing activities of $396.6 million for the same period in the prior year. Our financing activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 consisted of cash required for the repurchase of outstanding common stock under our stock repurchase program of $450.1 million, partially offset by cash received from the exercise of employee stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan of $48.8 million. Obligations and CommitmentsAs of June 30, 2018, our principal commitments consisted of obligations outstanding under operating leases. We lease our facilities under operating leases that expire at various dates through 2033. There have been no material changes in our principal lease commitments compared to those discussed in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.We outsource the manufacturing of our pre-configured hardware platforms to contract manufacturers who assemble each product to our specifications. Our agreement with our largest contract manufacturer allows them to procure component inventory on our behalf based upon a rolling production forecast. We are contractually obligated to purchase the component inventory in accordance with the forecast, unless we give notice of order cancellation in advance of applicable lead times. Recent Accounting PronouncementsThe anticipated impact of recent accounting pronouncements is discussed in Note 1 to the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskInterest Rate Risk. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. Our primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. Conversely, declines in interest rates, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. Our fixed income investments are held for purposes other than trading. Our fixed income investments were not leveraged as of June 30, 2018. We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers. As of June 30, 2018, 26.4% of our fixed income securities balance consisted of U.S. government and U.S. government agency securities. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong.Foreign Currency Risk. Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2018. “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. The risks discussed below and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results. These are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be insignificant also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future.Security vulnerabilities in our IT systems or products as well as unforeseen product errors could have a material adverse impact on our business results of operations, financial condition and reputationIn the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. In addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Our information systems and those of our partners and customers are subject to the increasing threat of intrusions by a wide range of actors including computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or they may be compromised due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions. Despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches or disruptions and may be vulnerable in the future to breach, attacks or disruptions. If any breach or attack compromises our networks, creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks or those of our customers could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and suffer reputational and financial harm. In addition, our products are used to manage critical applications and data for customers and third parties may attempt to exploit security vulnerabilities in our products as well as our internal IT systems. As we continue to focus on the development and marketing of security solutions, we become a bigger target for malicious computer hackers, including sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors who wish to exploit security vulnerabilities in our products or IT systems. We devote significant resources to addressing security vulnerabilities in our IT systems, product solutions and services through our efforts to engineer more secure solutions and services, enhance security and reliability features in our solutions and services, deploy security updates to address security vulnerabilities and seek to respond to known security incidents in sufficient time to minimize any potential adverse impact. Despite our efforts to harden our infrastructure and build secure solutions, from time to time, we experience attacks and other cyber-threats. These attacks can seek to exploit, among other things, known or unknown vulnerabilities in technology included in our IT infrastructure, solutions and services. For example, in January 2018, vulnerabilities in certain microprocessors were publicly announced under the names Spectre and Meltdown. 26Table of ContentsWhile we have undertaken efforts to mitigate these vulnerabilities, they could render our internal systems, products, and solutions and services susceptible to a cyberattack.Our products may also contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have experienced these errors or defects in the past in connection with new products and product upgrades. As our products and customer IT infrastructures become increasingly complex, customers may experience unforeseen errors in implementing our products into their IT environments. We expect that these errors or defects will be found from time to time in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. We may also be subject to liability claims for damages related to product errors or defects. While we carry insurance policies covering this type of liability, these policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. A material product liability claim may harm our business and results of operations.Our products must successfully operate with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. The occurrence of software or hardware problems, whether caused by our products or another vendor’s products, may result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. If we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity compensation in a competitive manner, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. François Locoh-Donou became the Company's CEO effective April 3, 2017. Transitioning to a new chief executive could be disruptive to our business and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, Frank Pelzer became the Company's Chief Financial Officer effective May 21, 2018 and Chad Whalen became the Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales effective July 9, 2018. Further changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully integrate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The complexity of our application delivery networking products and their integration into existing networks and ongoing support, as well as the sophistication of our sales and marketing effort, requires us to retain highly trained developers, professional services, customer support and sales personnel. Competition for qualified developers, professional services, customer support and sales personnel in our industry is intense, especially in Silicon Valley and Seattle where we have substantial operations and a need for highly skilled personnel, because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products. Also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may 27Table of Contentsbe subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited, that they have divulged proprietary or other confidential information, that they have violated non-compete obligations to their prior employers, or that their former employers own their inventions or other work product. Our ability to hire and retain these personnel may be adversely affected by volatility or reductions in the price of our common stock or our ability to get approval from shareholders to offer additional common stock to our employees, since these employees are generally granted restricted stock units. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring qualified personnel may harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we recently announced a restructuring to re-align our workforce to match strategic and financial objectives and optimize resources for long term growth, including a reduction in force program impacting a number of employees. This restructuring could lead to increased attrition amongst those employees who were not directly affected by the reduction in force program.We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilitiesOur provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by nondeductible stock-based compensation, changes in the research and development tax credit laws, earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, transfer pricing adjustments, not meeting the terms and conditions of tax holidays or incentives, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in actual results versus our estimates, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, including changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. The U.S., the European Union and its member states, and a number of other countries are actively pursuing changes in this regard. In addition, like other companies, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. While we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations.The “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 state that, “we do not provide for U.S. income taxes on certain foreign subsidiaries in which we intend to indefinitely reinvest such earnings outside the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. Additionally, any changes in U.S. tax laws that would limit the ability to defer taxation on earnings outside of the U.S. could affect the tax treatment of our foreign earnings.”The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017 imposes a tax on the deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. Effective January 1, 2018, the new U.S. tax law provides a deduction for the foreign-source portion of dividends received from specified foreign corporations. We have recorded a tax expense for the deemed repatriation of foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017, and will record any estimated deferred tax liabilities associated with a future repatriation of earnings to the United States.We recently implemented a restructuring program, which we cannot guarantee will achieve its intended resultIn July 2018, we announced a restructuring program to match strategic and financial objectives and optimize resources for long term growth. We incur substantial costs to implement restructuring plans, and our restructuring activities may subject us to litigation risks and expenses. Our past restructuring plans do not provide any assurance that additional restructuring plans will not be required or implemented in the future. In addition, our restructuring plans may have other consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce, a negative effect on employee morale and productivity or our ability to attract highly skilled employees. Our competitors may also use our restructuring plans to seek to gain a competitive advantage over us. As a result, our restructuring plans may affect our revenue and other operating results in the future.28Table of ContentsItem 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsOn October 25, 2017, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion for its common stock share repurchase program. This new authorization is incremental to the existing $3.4 billion program, initially approved in October 2010 and expanded in each fiscal year. Acquisitions for the share repurchase programs will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The programs can be terminated at any time.