Employer Identification No. YES x NO oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 3C. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 4D. Condensed Consolidated Statement of Equity for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 5E. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 6F. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 7Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks 46Item 4. Risk Factors 48Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 48Item 6. All adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. This report should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Amounts in tables in the financial statements and accompanying footnotes may not sum due to rounding. The Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with a date of initial application of January 1, 2018. The Company enters into arrangements with customers to provide services, software and software-related services such as maintenance, implementation and training either individually or as part of an integrated offering of multiple services. To identify its performance obligations, the Company considers all of the solutions or services promised in the contract regardless of whether they are explicitly stated or are implied by customary business practices. The Company recognizes revenue when or as it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of a solution or service to a customer.Revenue is measured based on the consideration that the Company expects to receive in a contract with a customer. The Company’s contracts with its customers frequently contain variable consideration. Variable consideration exists when the amount which the Company expects to receive in a contract is based on the occurrence or non-occurrence of future events, such as processing services performed under usage-based pricing arrangements or professional services billed on a time and materials basis. Variable consideration is also present in certain transactions in the form of discounts, credits, price concessions, penalties, and similar items. If the amount of a discount or rebate in a contract is fixed and not contingent, that discount or rebate is not variable consideration. The Company estimates variable consideration in its contracts primarily using the expected value method. In some contracts, the Company applies the most likely amount method by considering the single most likely amount in a limited range of possible consideration amounts. Variable consideration included in the transaction price is constrained such that a significant revenue reversal is not probable. Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are not included in revenue. Postage costs associated with print and mail services are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of revenue.Technology or service components from third parties are frequently embedded in or combined with our applications or service offerings. We are often responsible for billing the client in these arrangements and transmitting the applicable fees to the third party. The Company determines whether it is responsible for providing the actual solution or service as a principal, or for arranging for the solution or service to be provided by the third party as an agent. Judgment is applied to determine whether we are the principal or the agent by evaluating whether the Company has control of the solution or service prior to it being transferred to the customer. The principal versus agent assessment is performed at the performance obligation level. Indicators that the Company considers in determining if it has control include whether the Company is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified solution or service to the customer, the Company has inventory risk and the Company has discretion in establishing the price the customer ultimately pays for the solution or service. Depending upon the level of our contractual responsibilities and obligations for delivering solutions to end customers, we have arrangements where we are the principal and recognize the gross amount billed to the customer and other arrangements where we are the agent and recognize the net amount retained. If the allocation objective is met at contractual prices, no allocations are made. Otherwise, the Company allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation identified in the contract on a relative standalone selling price basis, except when the criteria are met for allocating variable consideration or a discount to one or more, but not all performance obligations in the contract. Determining whether the criteria for allocating variable consideration to one or more, but not all, performance obligations in the contract requires significant judgment and may affect the timing and amount of revenue recognized. The Company does not typically meet the requirements to allocate discounts to one or more, but not all, performance obligations in a contract.In order to determine the standalone selling price of its promised solutions or services, the Company conducts a regular analysis to determine whether various solutions or services have an observable standalone selling price. If the Company does not have an observable standalone selling price for a particular solution or service, then standalone selling price for that particular solution or service is estimated using all information that is reasonably available and maximizing observable inputs with approaches including historical pricing, cost plus a margin, adjusted market assessment, and residual approach.The following describes the nature of the Company’s primary types of revenue and the revenue recognition policies and significant payment terms as they pertain to the types of transactions the Company enters into with its customers.Processing Services RevenueProcessing services are primarily comprised of data processing and application management, including our SaaS, BPaaS, and cloud offerings. Revenue from processing services are typically volume- or activity-based depending on factors such as the number of accounts processed, transactions or trades processed, users, number of hours of services or computer resources used. The payment terms may include tiered pricing structures with the base tier representing a minimum monthly usage fee. Pricing within the tiers typically resets on a monthly basis and minimum monthly volumes are generally met or exceeded. Contract lengths for processing services typically span multiple years. Payment is generally due in advance or in arrears on a monthly or quarterly basis and may include fixed or variable payment amounts depending on the specific payment terms and activity in the period. For processing services revenue, the nature of the Company’s promise to the customer is to stand ready to provide continuous access to the Company’s processing platforms and perform an unspecified quantity of outsourced and transaction-processing services for a specified term or terms. Accordingly, processing services are generally viewed as a stand-ready performance obligation comprised of a series of distinct daily services. A time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress because the Company’s efforts are expended evenly throughout the period given the nature of the promise is a stand-ready service. The Company has evaluated its variable payment terms related to its processing services revenue accounted for as a series of distinct days of service and concluded that they generally meet the criteria for allocating variable consideration entirely to one or more, but not all, performance obligations in a contract. Accordingly, when the criteria are met, variable amounts based on the number and type of services performed during a period are allocated to and recognized on the day in which the Company performs the related services. Additionally, the nature of the Company’s promise in granting these software licenses to a customer is typically to provide the customer a right to use the Company’s intellectual property. The Company’s software licenses are generally considered distinct performance obligations, and revenue allocated to the software license is typically recognized at a point in time upon delivery of the license.In conjunction with software licenses, the Company commonly provides the customer with additional services such as maintenance as well as associated implementation and other professional services related to the software license. Payments for maintenance are typically due annually, quarterly, or monthly in advance. Maintenance is typically comprised of technical support and unspecified updates and upgrades. The Company generally satisfies these performance obligations evenly using a time-elapsed output method over the contract term given there is no discernible pattern of performance. When a software license contract also includes professional services that provide significant modification or customization of the software license, the Company combines the software license and professional services into a single performance obligation, and revenue for the combined performance obligation is recognized as the professional services are provided consistent with the methods described below for professional services revenue. The Company has contracts where the licensed software is offered in conjunction with hosting services. The licensed software may be considered a separate performance obligation from the hosting services if the customer can take possession of the software during the contractual term without incurring a significant penalty and if it is feasible for the customer to run the software on its own infrastructure or hire a third party to host the software. If the licensed software and hosting services are separately identifiable, license revenue is recognized when the hosting services commence and it is within the customer's control to obtain a copy of the software, and hosting revenue is recognized using the time-elapsed output method as the service is provided. If the software license is not separately identifiable from the hosting service, then the related revenue for the combined performance obligation is recognized ratably over the hosting period. Occasionally, the Company offers extended payment terms on its license transactions and evaluates whether any potential significant financing components exist. For certain of its business units, the Company will provide a software license through a rental model for customers who would prefer a periodic fee instead of a larger upfront payment. Revenue recognition under these arrangements follows the same recognition pattern as the arrangements outlined above; however, the customer generally pays for the software license and maintenance in monthly or quarterly installments as opposed to an upfront software license fee. Judgment is required to determine whether these arrangements contain a significant financing component. The Company evaluates whether there is a significant difference between the amount of promised consideration over the rental term and the cash selling price of the software license, and the overall impact of the time value of money on the transaction. Rental software license arrangements that include a significant financing component are adjusted for the time value of money at the Company’s incremental borrowing rate by recording a contract asset and interest income. The Company does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of the time value of money if it is expected, at contract inception, that the period between when the Company transfers a promised solution or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that solution or service will be one year or less.Professional Services RevenueProfessional services revenue is comprised of implementation, conversion, and programming services associated with the Company’s data processing and application management agreements, implementation or installation services related to licensed software, and other consulting services. A significant portion of our professional services revenue is derived from contracts for dedicated personnel resources who are often working full-time at a client site and under the client's direction. Implementation services and other professional services are typically considered distinct performance obligations. However, when these services involve significant customization or modification of an underlying solution or offering, or if the services are complex and not available from a third-party provider and must be completed prior to a customer having the ability to benefit from a solution or offering, then such services and the underlying solution or offering will be accounted for as a combined performance obligation. For professional services that are distinct and billed on a time and materials basis, revenue is generally recognized using an output method that corresponds with the time and materials billed and delivered, which is reflective of the transfer of the services to the customer. Hardware and Other RevenueHardware and other miscellaneous revenue is generally recognized at a point in time upon delivery. The Company typically does not stock in inventory the hardware solutions sold but arranges for delivery of hardware from third-party suppliers. The Company determines whether hardware delivered from third-party suppliers should be recognized on a gross or net basis by evaluating whether the Company has control of the solution or service prior to it being transferred to the customer.Material RightsSome of the Company’s contracts with customers include options for the customer to acquire additional solutions or services in the future, including options to renew existing services. Options may represent a material right to acquire solutions or services if the discount is incremental to the range of discounts typically given for those solutions or services to that class of customer in that geographical area or market, and the customer would not have obtained the option without entering into the contract. If deemed to be a material right, the Company will account for the material right as a separate performance obligation and determine the standalone selling price based on directly observable prices when available. If the standalone selling price is not directly observable, then the Company estimates the standalone selling price to be equal to the discount that the customer would obtain by exercising the option, as adjusted for any discount that the customer would receive without exercising the option and for the likelihood that the option will be exercised. Origination costs relate primarily to the payment of sales commissions that are directly related to sales transactions. Fulfillment costs include the cost of implementation services related to SaaS and other cloud-based arrangements when the implementation service is not distinct from the ongoing service. When origination costs and fulfillment costs that will be used to satisfy future performance obligations are directly related to the execution of our contracts with customers, and the costs are recoverable under the contract, the costs are capitalized as a deferred contract cost. Origination costs for contracts that contain a distinct software license recognized at a point in time are allocated between the license and all other performance obligations of the contract and amortized according to the pattern of performance for the respective obligations. Otherwise, origination costs are capitalized as a single asset for each contract and amortized using an appropriate single measure of performance considering all of the performance obligations in the contract. The Company amortizes origination costs over the expected benefit period to which the deferred contract cost relates. Commissions paid on renewals are amortized over the renewal period. Capitalized fulfillment costs are amortized over the lesser of the useful life of the solution or the expected customer relationship period. As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition. For completed contracts that have variable consideration, the Company used the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods. Further, the Company did not disclose the amount of consideration allocated to the remaining performance obligations or an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize that amount as revenue for the 2017 interim reporting periods presented before the date of the initial application. Lastly, the Company did not retrospectively restate contracts modified before the beginning of the earliest reporting period presented but reflects the aggregate effect of all modifications that occurred before the beginning of the earliest period presented.Principal vs. Agent ConsiderationsIn customer transactions that also involve third parties, the Company determines whether it is responsible for providing the ultimate solution or service as a principal, or whether it is merely arranging for the solution or service to be provided by the third party as an agent. When the Company is acting as a principal in a transaction, the Company recognizes the gross amounts billed as revenue. When the Company is acting as an agent in a transaction, the Company recognizes the net amount retained as revenue. Previously, the Company followed the guidance of Topic 605, which lists eight specific indicators that are determinative in evaluating whether a contract is recorded on a gross or a net basis. Under Topic 606, the determination is based on whether an entity obtains control of goods or services prior to transfer to a customer. The Company determined interchange and third-party network fees associated with certain parts of the payment processing business were significantly impacted by the adoption of Topic 606. Previously, gross accounting applied to certain types of these transactions, depending on the specific facts and circumstances. However, under Topic 606 revenue from these arrangements will be presented on a net basis because the Company has concluded that it is acting as an agent in the transaction. Software License RentalsThe Company previously recognized revenue for initial license fees only when a contract existed, the fee was fixed or determinable, software delivery had occurred, collection was deemed probable, and vendor specific objective evidence of fair value had been established for any undelivered elements in the arrangement. If those criteria were not met, the initial license revenue was either deferred or recognized over time depending on the specific facts and circumstances. Software license rentals typically include payments that are delayed for a period of time, causing the Company to conclude that some portion of the license fee was not fixed or determinable. In these arrangements, license revenue would be deferred until payments become due and payable. Under Topic 606, the Company’s software licenses are generally considered distinct performance obligations, and revenue allocated to the software license is typically recognized at a point in time upon delivery of the license. Software license revenue is also typically recognized at a point in time upon delivery of the license under Topic 606 even if it is sold in a rental model or with extended payment terms, provided collectability is probable. Accordingly, a larger portion of software license revenue is recognized upfront for such transactions under Topic 606 than under Topic 605.Term License Early RenewalsThe Company previously recognized revenue for term software license renewals upon execution of a license renewal contract, provided all other revenue recognition requirements were met. Under Topic 606, revenue attributable to software term license renewals is now recognized at a later date than it would have been recognized under the previous accounting policy. In some cases, customers pay in advance of our delivery of solutions or services; in other cases, payment is due as services are performed or in arrears following the delivery of the solutions or services. This occurs most commonly when software term licenses recognized at a point in time are paid for periodically over the license term. Contract assets are transferred to receivables when the rights become unconditional, typically upon invoicing of the related performance obligations in the contract or upon achieving the requisite project milestone. Deferred revenue is relieved as revenue is recognized. Contract assets and deferred revenue are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the contract assets and deferred revenue balances during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were not materially impacted by any factors other than those described above. Transaction Price Allocated to the Remaining Performance ObligationsAs of September 30, 2018, approximately $19.5 billion of revenue is estimated to be recognized in the future from the Company’s remaining unfulfilled performance obligations, which are primarily comprised of recurring account- and volume-based processing services. This excludes the amount of anticipated recurring renewals not yet contractually obligated. The Company expects to recognize approximately 35% of our remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months, approximately another 25% over the next 13 to 24 months, and the balance thereafter. Settlement deposits represent funds we hold that were drawn from our clients to facilitate settlement activities. Settlement receivables represent amounts funded by us. Settlement payables consist of settlement deposits from clients, settlement payables to third parties, and outstanding checks related to our settlement activities for which the right of offset does not exist or we do not intend to exercise our right of offset. As of September 30, 2018, the weighted average interest rate on the Revolving Credit Facility, excluding fees, was 3.42%. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility will be used for general corporate purposes, including backstopping any Notes that FIS may issue under the Commercial Paper Program described below. The Notes will have maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue. The proceeds of the Notes are expected to be used for general corporate purposes. As of September 30, 2018, there were no outstanding Notes under the Commercial Paper Program.The obligations of FIS under the FIS Credit Agreement, Commercial Paper Program and under all of its outstanding senior notes rank equal in priority and are unsecured. The redemption of the March 2022 Notes and the repayment of the 2018 Term Loans were funded by borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and cash proceeds from the sale of the Public Sector and Education business. As a result of the redemption of the March 2022 Notes and the repayment of the 2018 Term Loans, FIS incurred a pre-tax charge of approximately $25 million consisting of the call premium on the March 2022 Notes and the write-off of previously capitalized debt issuance costs.On July 10, 2017, FIS issued €1,000 million and £300 million principal amount of senior notes in an inaugural European bond offering. The senior notes include €500 million of Senior Notes due in 2021 that bear interest at 0.400%, £300 million of Senior Notes due in 2022 that bear interest at 1.700% and €500 million of Senior Notes due in 2024 that bear interest at 1.100%. FIS paid approximately $150 million in tender premiums to par to purchase the notes in the Tender Offers and incurred a pre-tax charge upon extinguishment of approximately $167 million in tender premiums, the write-off of previously capitalized debt issue costs and other direct costs.On May 16, 2018, FIS issued $1,000 million principal amount of new senior notes, including $400 million of Senior Notes due in 2028 that bear interest at 4.250% and $600 million of Senior Notes due in 2048 that bear interest at 4.750%. Net proceeds from the offering, after deducting discounts and underwriting fees, were $979 million. FIS used the proceeds to partially repay its Revolving Credit Facility. On June 15, 2018, FIS redeemed 100% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of its $750 million 2.850% Senior Notes due October 2018. FIS may redeem the 2020 Notes, 2021 Notes, 2021 Euro Notes, 2022 Notes, 2022 GBP Notes, 2023 Notes, 2024 Notes, 2024 Euro Notes, 2025 Notes, 2026 Notes, 2028 Notes, 2046 Notes and 2048 Notes at its option in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount to be redeemed and a make-whole amount calculated as described in the related indenture in each case plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption, provided no make-whole amount will be paid for redemptions of the 2020 Notes, the 2021 Notes, the 2021 Euro Notes and the 2022 GBP Notes during the one month prior to their maturity, the 2022 Notes during the two months prior to their maturity, the 2023 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 2024 Euro Notes, the 2025 Notes, the 2026 Notes and the 2028 Notes during the three months prior to their maturity, and the 2046 Notes and 2048 Notes during the six months prior to their maturity.Debt issuance costs of $61 million, net of accumulated amortization, remain capitalized as of September 30, 2018, related to all of the above outstanding debt. We monitor the financial stability of our counterparties on an ongoing basis. The lender commitments under the undrawn portions of the Revolving Credit Facility are comprised of a diversified set of financial institutions, both domestic and international. The failure of any single lender to perform its obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility would not adversely impact our ability to fund operations.The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt is estimated to be approximately $97 million lower than the carrying value excluding unamortized discounts as of September 30, 2018. This estimate is based on quoted prices of our senior notes and trades of our other debt in close proximity to September 30, 2018, which are considered Level 2-type measurements. This estimate is subjective in nature and involves uncertainties and significant judgment in the interpretation of current market data. Therefore, the values presented are not necessarily indicative of amounts the Company could realize or settle currently. Net Investment Hedges In June 2017, the Company entered into two Euro-denominated foreign currency exchange forward contracts totaling €999 million and a GBP-denominated foreign currency exchange forward contract of £298 million, which were designated as a net investment hedge of its investment in Euro and GBP denominated operations, respectively, in order to reduce the volatility in the income statement caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the Euro and GBP with respect to the U.S. dollar. The ineffective portion of the hedging instruments impacts net income when the ineffectiveness occurs. During the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2018, net investment hedge combined gains of $10 million and $38 million, net of tax, respectively, were recognized in other comprehensive income as a component of foreign currency translation adjustments. No ineffectiveness was recorded on the net investment hedges above. Plaintiffs in the action seek damages and attorneys’ fees, as well as equitable relief, on behalf of Plan participants for alleged breaches of fiduciary duty and prohibited transactions under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The action also makes claims against the Plan's sponsor and record-keeper. Reliance is vigorously defending the action and believes that it has meritorious defenses. Pre-trial discovery has now been completed. Reliance contends that no breaches of fiduciary duty or prohibited transactions occurred and that the Plan suffered no damages. Plaintiffs allege damages of approximately $125 million. While we are unable at this time to estimate more precisely the potential loss or range of loss because of unresolved questions of fact and law, we believe that the ultimate resolution of the matter will not have a material impact on our financial condition. We do not believe a liability for this action is probable and, therefore, have not recorded a liability for this action.Brazilian Tax Authorities ClaimsIn 2004, Proservvi Empreendimentos e Servicos, Ltda., the predecessor to Fidelity National Servicos de Tratamento de Documentos e Informatica Ltda. Transpev’s remaining assets were later acquired by Prosegur, an unrelated third party. When Transpev discontinued its operations after the asset sale to Prosegur, it had unpaid federal taxes and social contributions owing to the Brazilian tax authorities. The Brazilian tax authorities brought a claim against Transpev and beginning in 2012 brought claims against Prosegur and Servicos on the grounds that Prosegur and Servicos were successors in interest to Transpev. To date, the Brazilian tax authorities filed 11 claims against Servicos asserting potential tax liabilities of approximately $13 million. These additional claims amount to approximately $51 million making the total potential exposure for all 37 claims approximately $64 million. Historically, the Company has not made any material payments under such indemnifications, but continues to monitor the conditions that are subject to the indemnifications to identify whether it is probable that a loss has occurred, and would recognize any such losses when they are estimable. In addition, the Company warrants to customers that its software operates substantially in accordance with the software specifications. Historically, no material costs have been incurred related to software warranties and no accruals for warranty costs have been made. Cardinal became a related party effective July 31, 2017. FIS also provides ongoing management consulting services and other services to Cardinal. Capco revenue and related party receivables from Banco Bradesco through the July 31, 2017 closing are included below under Brazilian Venture revenue and trade receivables from Banco Bradesco.Brazilian VentureThe Company operates the Brazilian Venture with Banco Bradesco, in which FIS owns a 51% controlling interest in a joint venture, to provide comprehensive, fully-outsourced transaction processing, call center, cardholder support and collection services to multiple card issuing clients in Brazil, including Banco Bradesco. The original accounting for this transaction resulted in the establishment of a contract intangible asset and a liability for amounts payable to the original partner banks upon final migration of their respective card portfolios and achieving targeted volumes. On September 28, 2018, FIS entered into an agreement with Banco Bradesco to unwind the Brazilian Venture. Under this agreement, the Brazilian Venture will spin-off certain assets of the business that also provide services to non-Bradesco clients to a new wholly-owned FIS subsidiary. The subsidiary will enter into a long-term commercial agreement to provide current and new services to Banco Bradesco that include software application licensing and management, card portfolio migration, business process outsourcing, fraud management and professional services. Banco Bradesco will then own 100% of the entity that previously housed the Brazilian Venture and its remaining assets that relate to card processing for Banco Bradesco, which Banco Bradesco will thereafter perform internally. FIS expects to complete the transaction in the first half of 2019. As of September 30, 2018, FIS met the criteria to present the assets and liabilities that it will no longer control as held for sale in its balance sheet. The transaction does not meet the standard necessary to be reported as discontinued operations. The impairment charges are included in the Corporate and Other segment results. The unamortized contract intangible asset balance as of September 30, 2018 was $0 million as a result of the impairment.The board of directors for the Brazilian Venture declared a dividend during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, resulting in payments to Banco Bradesco of $23 million and $23 million, respectively. The carrying value of the noncontrolling interest as of September 30, 2018 was $78 million. The Company recorded revenue of $77 million and $81 million during the three months and $244 million and $250 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, from Banco Bradesco. Revenue from Banco Bradesco included $19 million and $31 million of unfavorable currency impact during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, resulting from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and Brazilian Real. This share repurchase authorization replaced any existing share repurchase authorization. The divestiture is consistent with our strategy to focus on our IP-led businesses. The businesses sold were included within the GFS and IFS segments. The sale did not meet the standard necessary to be reported as discontinued operations; therefore, the pre-tax loss and related prior period earnings remain reported within earnings. The carrying value of this equity method investment as of September 30, 2018 was $156 million. The divestiture is consistent with our strategy to serve the financial services markets. Net cash proceeds, after payment of taxes and transaction-related expenses, were approximately $500 million. The sale did not meet the standard necessary to be reported as discontinued operations; therefore, the gain and related prior period earnings remain reported within earnings. Clients in this segment include regional and community banks, credit unions and commercial lenders, as well as government institutions, merchants and other commercial organizations. IFS’ primary software applications function as the underlying infrastructure of a financial institution's processing environment. These applications include core bank processing software, which banks use to maintain the primary records of their customer accounts, and complementary applications and services that interact directly with the core processing applications. This market is primarily served through integrated solutions and characterized by multi-year processing contracts that generate highly recurring revenue. The predictable nature of cash flows generated from this segment provides opportunities for further investments in innovation, integration, information and security, and compliance in a cost effective manner. GFS clients include the largest global financial institutions, including those headquartered in the United States, as well as all international financial institutions we serve as clients in more than 130 countries. These institutions face unique business and regulatory challenges and account for the majority of financial institution information technology spend globally. The purchasing patterns of GFS clients vary from those of IFS clients who typically purchase solutions on an outsourced basis. GFS clients purchase our solutions and services in various ways including licensing and managing technology “in-house,” fully outsourced end-to-end solutions, and using consulting and third-party service providers. We have long-established relationships with many of these financial institutions that generate significant recurring revenue. GFS clients also include asset managers, buy- and sell-side securities and trading firms, insurers and private equity firms. The overhead and leveraged costs relate to marketing, corporate finance and accounting, human resources, legal, and amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and other costs that are not considered when management evaluates revenue-generating segment performance, such as acquisition, integration and certain other costs. The Corporate and Other segment also includes the impact on revenue for 2018 and 2017 of adjusting SunGard's deferred revenue to fair value. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 the Company recorded acquisition and integration costs primarily related to the SunGard acquisition and certain other costs including those associated with data center consolidation activities of $16 million and $122 million, respectively. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 the Company recorded acquisition and integration costs primarily related to the SunGard acquisition of $22 million and $141 million, respectively. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, "Segment Reporting." The non-operating items affecting the segment profit measure generally include acquisition accounting adjustments; acquisition, integration and certain other costs; and asset impairments. For consolidated reporting purposes, these costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Summarized financial information for the Company’s segments is shown in the following tables. Long-term assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, located outside of the United States total $535 million and $532 million as of September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. This share repurchase authorization replaced any existing share repurchase authorization plan. Approximately $2.8 billion of plan capacity remained available for repurchases as of September 30, 2018. The statements contained in this Form 10-Q or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about anticipated financial outcomes, including any earnings guidance of the Company, business and market conditions, outlook, foreign currency exchange rates, expected dividends and share repurchases, the Company’s sales pipeline and anticipated profitability and growth, as well as other statements about our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future are forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. You should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. OverviewFIS is a global leader in financial services technology with a focus on retail and institutional banking, payments, asset management and wealth and retirement, risk and compliance and outsourcing solutions. Through the depth and breadth of our solutions portfolio, global capabilities and domain expertise, FIS serves more than 20,000 clients in over 130 countries. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS employs more than 52,000 people worldwide and holds leadership positions in payment processing, financial software and banking solutions. We have grown organically as well as through acquisitions, which have contributed critical applications and services that complement or enhance our existing offerings, diversifying our revenue by customer, geography and service offering. Revenue by segment and the adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Business Trends and ConditionsOur revenue is primarily derived from a combination of recurring technology and processing services, professional services and software license fees. The majority of our revenue has historically been recurring and has been provided under multi-year contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These services, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. A considerable portion of our recurring revenue is derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the level of accounts and card transactions, among other variable measures, associated with consumer, commercial and capital markets activity. Professional services revenue is typically non-recurring, and sales of software licenses are less predictable, a portion of which can be regarded as discretionary spending by our clients. The SunGard acquisition broadened our solution portfolio, enabling us to expand beyond our traditional banking and payments markets into the institutional and wholesale side of financial institutions as well as other capital markets organizations. It also significantly expanded our existing solutions and client base in wealth and retirement, treasury and corporate payments. These solutions are in demand among our regional and community financial institution clients as they look for ways to replace highly regulated fee revenue. The combination also favorably impacted our revenue mix, with a greater concentration of license revenue and higher margin services. Through the integration of SunGard into our existing operations, we achieved significant cost savings around administration and technology expenses and exited 2017 with a cost synergy run-rate savings exceeding $325 million. We are actively migrating many financial institutions to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and address increasing and ongoing regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourcing solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well-positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve.Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice-banking channels. We continue to innovate and invest in these integrated solutions and services to assist clients as they address this market demand. This is an area of ongoing competition from global banks, international providers and disruptive technology innovators.We continue to see demand for innovative solutions in the payments market that will deliver faster, more convenient payment solutions in mobile channels, internet applications and cards. We believe digital payments will grow and partially replace existing payment tender volumes over time as consumers and merchants embrace the convenience, incremental services and benefits. Additionally, new formidable non-traditional payments competitors and large merchants are investing in and innovating digital payment technologies to address the emerging market opportunity, and it is unclear the extent to which particular technologies or services will succeed. We believe the growth of digital payments continues to present both an opportunity and a risk to us as the market develops. Although we cannot predict which digital payment technologies or solutions will be successful, we cautiously believe our client relationships, payments infrastructure and experience, adapted solutions and emerging solutions are well-positioned to maintain or grow our clients' existing payment volumes, which is our focus. High profile North American merchant payment card information security breaches have pushed the payment card industry towards EMV integrated circuit cards as financial institutions, card networks and merchants seek to improve information security and reduce fraud costs. We invested in our card management solutions and card manufacturing and processing capabilities to accommodate EMV integrated circuit cards so we can continue to guide our clients through this technology transition and grow our card-driven businesses. A large portion of the migration to EMV is complete. The remaining portion will continue as financial institutions issue replacement cards.We anticipate consolidation within the banking industry will continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity, which we believe as a whole is detrimental to our business. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems obtained from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our services if such services are chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose revenue if we are providing services to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our services are not chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive services to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. Notwithstanding challenging global economic conditions, our ongoing international business continued to experience growth in the first nine months of 2018 on a constant currency basis. Demand for our solutions may also continue to be driven in developing countries by government-led financial inclusion policies aiming to reduce the unbanked population and by growth in the middle classes in these markets driving the need for more sophisticated banking solutions. For the full year of 2018, we anticipate an approximate $55 million adverse impact to revenue due to foreign currency translation. On September 28, 2018, FIS entered into an agreement with Banco Bradesco to unwind the Brazilian Venture. Under this agreement, the Brazilian Venture will spin-off certain assets of the business that also provide services to non-Bradesco clients to a new wholly-owned FIS subsidiary. The subsidiary will enter into a long-term commercial agreement to provide current and new services to Banco Bradesco that include software application licensing and management, card portfolio migration, business process outsourcing, fraud management and professional services. Banco Bradesco will then own 100% of the entity that previously housed the Brazilian Venture and its remaining assets that relate to card processing for Banco Bradesco, which Banco Bradesco will thereafter perform internally. FIS expects to complete the transaction in the first half of 2019. Post-closing, the transaction is expected to result in an annualized reduction in FIS’ reported revenue of approximately $200 million with minimal impact to its net earnings. In addition, it resulted in impairment charges of $95 million in the third quarter of 2018. The transaction is subject to Brazilian regulatory approval and FIS expects to complete the transaction in the first half of 2019. Risk Factors included in Part II in this report on Form 10-Q.Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. FIS remains focused on making strategic investments in information security to protect our clients and our information systems. This includes both capital expenditures and operating expense on hardware, software, personnel and consulting services. We also participate in industry and governmental initiatives to improve information security for our clients. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and involvement, we have developed fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target this growth opportunity in the financial services industry. These businesses had lower margins than many of our other businesses. The consulting businesses sold were included within the GFS and IFS segments. We are frequently a party to multiple concurrent contracts with the same client. These situations require judgment to determine whether the individual contracts should be combined or evaluated separately for purposes of revenue recognition. In making this determination, we consider the timing of negotiating and executing the contracts, whether the different elements of the contracts are negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective, whether the solutions or services promised in the contracts are a single performance obligation, and whether any of the payment terms of the contracts are interrelated. Our individual contracts also frequently include multiple promised solutions or services. We must apply judgment in these circumstances in determining whether individual promised solutions or services can be considered distinct or should instead be combined with other promised solutions or services in the contract. We recognize revenue when or as we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a solution or service to a customer. We must use judgment to determine the appropriate measure of progress for performance obligations satisfied over time and the timing of when the customer obtains control for performance obligations satisfied at a point in time. Judgment is also required in estimating and allocating variable consideration to one or more, but not all, performance obligations in a contract, determining the standalone selling prices of each performance obligation, and allocating the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation in a contract. Due to the large number, broad nature and average size of individual contracts we are party to, the impact of judgments and assumptions that we apply in recognizing revenue for any single contract is not likely to have a material effect on our consolidated operations or financial position. However, the broader accounting policy assumptions that we apply across similar contracts or classes of clients could significantly influence the timing and amount of revenue recognized in our historical and future results of operations or financial position. Cost of Revenue and Gross ProfitCost of revenue totaled $1,364 million and $1,386 million during the three-month periods and $4,192 million and $4,397 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, resulting in gross profit of $720 million and $710 million during the respective three-month periods and $2,064 million and $2,105 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The change in gross profit during the 2018 period as compared to 2017 primarily resulted from the revenue variances noted above. The gross profit percentage change during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to 2017, was positively affected by the Capco consulting business divestiture during 2017 as well as cost management initiatives. Selling, General and Administrative ExpensesSelling, general and administrative expenses totaled $283 million and $325 million during the three-month periods and $980 million and $1,104 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The changes in operating income for the three-month and nine-month periods of 2018 as compared to 2017 resulted from the variances addressed above. The change in operating margin during the 2018 periods was negatively impacted by asset impairments. Excluding the asset impairments, operating margins improved primarily from cost management initiatives and the Capco consulting business divestiture during 2017. The 2018 effective tax rate includes the impact of the reduction in the U.S. federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% due to tax reform enacted December 22, 2017. These items were provisional as the data necessary for their completion was not fully available. We recorded losses from this equity method investment totaling $4 million and $11 million during the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively.Net Earnings Attributable to FIS Common StockholdersNet earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders totaled $154 million and $59 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $0.47 and $0.18 for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $548 million and $327 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $1.65 and $0.98 for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, "Segment Reporting." The non-operating items affecting the segment profit measure generally include acquisition accounting adjustments; acquisition, integration and certain other costs; and asset impairments. For consolidated reporting purposes, these costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 30 basis points to 45.5% primarily driven by operating efficiencies. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 50 basis points to 44.0% primarily driven by a revenue mix shift and operating efficiencies. Adjusted EBITDA increased $33 million, or 3.5%, primarily resulting from favorable revenue mix and continued cost management initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA margins increased 480 basis points to 35.5% resulting from the positive impact of the Capco consulting business divestiture during 2017, as well as continued cost management initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA increased $8 million, or 5.3%, primarily resulting from a reduction in infrastructure technology expenses and the early results of of our data center consolidation program, partially offset by the revenue variance noted above.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesCash RequirementsOur ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities, and may include discretionary debt repayments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. As of September 30, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $632 million and long-term debt of $9.0 billion, including the current portion, net of capitalized debt issuance costs. Of the $632 million cash and cash equivalents, approximately $367 million is held by our foreign entities. The majority of our domestic cash and cash equivalents represents net deposits-in-transit at the balance sheet dates and relates to daily settlement activity. We expect that cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations over the next 12 months will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.32 per common share was paid on September 28, 2018 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on September 14, 2018. On July 20, 2017 our Board of Directors approved a plan authorizing repurchases of up to $4.0 billion of our outstanding common stock in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through December 31, 2020. This share repurchase authorization replaced any existing share repurchase authorization. 42Table of ContentsCash Flows from OperationsCash flows from operations were $1,288 million and $1,079 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net earnings, adjusted to add back depreciation and amortization. Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsFIS does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. For public companies, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for any organization in any interim or annual period. FIS elected to adopt this standard in the third quarter of 2017. FIS has applied the presentation guidance above to its statements of cash flows and all adjustments have been reflected on a retrospecive basis. The primary impact of adopting the new guidance is our 2017 presentation of debt prepayment and related costs being reflected in financing activities rather than operating activities. In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current GAAP. ASU 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years; the ASU allows for early adoption in any interim period after issuance of the update. Under ASU 2017-07, the service cost component of the net periodic benefit cost is disclosed in the same income statement line item as other employee compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period, and the other components are reported separately from the line item that includes the service cost and outside of any subtotal of operating income. ASU 2017-07 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and early adoption is permitted. FIS adopted the provisions of ASU 2017-07 as of January 1, 2018. FIS adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-18 as of January 1, 2018. FIS had no restricted cash during 2017 or 2018. The amendment requires equity securities to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized through net earnings and amends certain disclosure requirements associated with the fair value of financial instruments. In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. FIS adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-01 as of January 1, 2018. It also includes guidance on accounting for the incremental costs of obtaining and costs incurred to fulfill a contract with a customer. The ASU implements a five-step process for customer contract revenue recognition that focuses on transfer of control, as opposed to transfer of risk and rewards. The amendment also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows from contracts with customers. The FASB has issued several amendments to Topic 606, including further guidance on principal versus agent consideration, clarification on identifying performance obligations and accounting for licenses of intellectual property.The effective date of the standard was postponed to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption allowed for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. We adopted the new standard effective January 1, 2018.Entities can transition to the standard with retrospective application to the earliest years presented in their financial statements, retrospectively using certain practical expedients, or with a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. •Recognition of certain term license early renewals are now deferred until the conclusion of the term in effect at the time of renewal. Previously, term license early renewals were generally recognized upon execution of the renewal agreement. •We now recognize the license portion of software rental fees in certain of our global trading, asset management, and securities processing businesses upon delivery. Previously, software license rental fees were recognized ratably over the rental period as the payments became due and payable. 44Table of ContentsImpacts related to other changes introduced by the standard were substantially less significant than those listed above.Upon retrospective application of Topic 606, our revenue decreased by approximately $455 million and $410 million and net earnings decreased approximately $58 million and $43 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We recorded a net reduction to opening retained earnings of approximately $23 million as of January 1, 2016 due to the cumulative impact of adopting the standard. The impact of Topic 606 on our 2017 and 2016 operating results may or may not be representative of the impact on subsequent years’ results.Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. Topic 842 was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-01, “Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842;” ASU No. 2018-10, “Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases;” and ASU No. Leases will be classified as finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern and classification of expense recognition in the income statement. Under the new standard, lessor accounting is largely unchanged. The new standard is effective for public business entities on January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. A modified retrospective transition approach is required, applying the new standard to all leases existing at the date of initial application. If an entity chooses the second option, the transition requirements for existing leases also apply to leases entered into between the date of initial application and the effective date. The entity must also recast its comparative period financial statements and provide the disclosures required by the new standard for the comparative periods. We will adopt the new standard on January 1, 2019 and use the effective date as our date of initial application. Consequently, financial information will not be updated and the disclosures required under the new standard will not be provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019. The new standard provides a number of optional practical expedients in transition. We expect to elect the "package of practical expedients," which permits us not to reassess under the new standard our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs. We do not expect to elect the use-of-hindsight or the practical expedient pertaining to land easements. The new standard also provides practical expedients for an entity’s ongoing accounting including short-term lease recognition and measurement exemption and non-separation of lease and non-lease components by asset class. We are currently assessing the extent to which we will elect these practical expedients.We expect that this standard will have an immaterial effect on results of operations. While we continue to assess all of the effects of adoption, we currently believe the most significant effects relate to the recognition of new ROU assets and lease liabilities on our balance sheet for our real estate operating leases and providing new disclosures about our leasing activities. On June 16, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. Under current guidance, the credit losses are calculated based on multiple credit impairment objectives and recognition is delayed until the loss is probable to occur. Under the new guidance, financial assets measured at amortized cost basis must be shown as the net amount expected to be collected. The credit loss allowance is a contra-valuation account. Available-for-sale securities should continue to be recognized in a similar manner to current GAAP; however, the allowance should be presented as an allowance instead of a write-down of the basis of the asset. For public business entities, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for any organization in any interim or annual period beginning after December 15, 2018. We do not plan to early adopt and expect that the new guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statement presentation, financial position, or results of operations.On August 29, 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. For public business entities, ASU 2018-15 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently assessing the impact the adoption of ASU 2018-15 will have on our financial position and results of operations.Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market RisksMarket RiskWe are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We periodically use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. We do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity.Interest Rate RiskIn addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use fixed-rate and variable-rate debt to finance our operations. We are exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations and related interest rate swaps, if any. The carrying value excluding unamortized discounts of the senior notes was $8,501 million as of September 30, 2018. The fair value of the senior notes was approximately $8,405 million as of September 30, 2018. The potential reduction in fair value of the senior notes from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. We performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based on the principal amount of our floating rate debt as of September 30, 2018. This sensitivity analysis is based solely on the principal amount of such debt as of September 30, 2018, and does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt. Further, in this sensitivity analysis, the change in interest rates is assumed to be applicable for an entire year. For comparison purposes, based on principal amounts of floating rate debt outstanding as of September 30, 2017, and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the LIBOR rate would have increased our annual interest expense, after we calculate the impact of our interest rate swaps, by approximately $6 million. As of September 30, 2018, we had no interest rate swaps.Foreign Currency RiskWe are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. These risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. We manage the exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward contracts and non-derivative investment hedges. Contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. Our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arises from our non-U.S. operations, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenue denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we generated approximately $376 million and $1,133 million, respectively, in revenue denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. The major currencies to which our revenues are exposed are the Brazilian Real, the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and the Indian Rupee. Revenue included $30 million and $9 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, resulting from changes in the U.S. Dollar during 2018 as compared to 2017. Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders included $5 million and $5 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. For the full year of 2018, we anticipate an approximate $55 million adverse impact to revenue due to foreign currency translation. We do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes or to engage in speculative activity. We do periodically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposure to intercompany loans. We did not have significant forward contracts as of September 30, 2018. Item 4. However, in connection with the adoption of ASC 606, we did implement changes to our processes related to revenue recognition and the control activities within those processes. These included the development of new policies based on the new standard, new training, and gathering of information provided for disclosures. Risk Factors See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a detailed discussion of risk factors affecting the Company. The following new risk factor replaces in its entirety the risk factor in our Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2017, titled, “We have a substantial investment in our Brazilian Venture and obtain significant revenue through that venture that would be lost and result in significant termination costs if our venture partner were to terminate the agreement, to the extent not replaced by further commercial agreements.”The future results of our Brazilian operations may not meet our financial goals following the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture. On September 28, 2018, FIS entered into an agreement with Banco Bradesco to unwind the Brazilian Venture. Under this agreement, the Brazilian Venture will spin-off certain assets of the business that also provide services to non-Bradesco clients to a new wholly-owned FIS subsidiary. The subsidiary will enter into a long-term commercial agreement to provide current and new services to Banco Bradesco that include software application licensing and management, card portfolio migration, business process outsourcing, fraud management and professional services. Banco Bradesco will then own 100% of the entity that previously housed the Brazilian Venture and its remaining assets that relate to card processing for Banco Bradesco, which Banco Bradesco will thereafter perform internally. FIS expects to complete the transaction in the first half of 2019. Post-closing, the transaction is expected to result in an annualized reduction in FIS’ reported revenue of approximately $200 million with minimal impact to its net earnings. While FIS expects the net earnings from current non-Bradesco customers and the current and new services provided to Bradesco by FIS to substantially replace the net earnings lost from the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture, no assurance can be made in this regard, and FIS may fail to meet its financial goals to grow the business following the closing of the transaction. Further, it is possible that existing non-Bradesco clients may reduce the amount of services we perform for them following the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture. This share repurchase authorization replaced any existing share repurchase authorization plan. Approximately $2.8 billion of plan capacity remained available for repurchases as of September 30, 2018. 48Table of ContentsItem 6. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES, INC. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 51