FINANCIAL INFORMATIONITEM 1. Basis of PresentationThe consolidated financial statements for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 are unaudited. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements have been included. Such adjustments consisted of normal recurring items. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and its related amendments using the modified retrospective transition approach applied to all contracts. Prior period amounts have not been restated; however, certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. Additional information about the Company’s revenue recognition policies and the related impact of the adoption is included in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Principles of ConsolidationThe consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Fiserv, Inc. and all 100% owned subsidiaries. Investments in less than 50% owned affiliates in which the Company has significant influence but not control are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.Stock SplitOn February 21, 2018, the Company’s board of directors declared a two-for-one stock split of the Company’s common stock and a proportionate increase in the number of its authorized shares of common stock. The additional shares were distributed on March 19, 2018 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 5, 2018. The Company’s common stock began trading at the split-adjusted price on March 20, 2018. All share and per share amounts are retroactively presented on a split-adjusted basis. The impact on the consolidated balance sheets of the stock split was an increase of $4 million to common stock and an offsetting reduction in additional paid-in capital, which has been retroactively restated.2. ASU 2018-02 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company early adopted ASU 2018-02 in the first quarter of 2018, and elected to reclassify the Tax Act income tax benefits of $3 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings.In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. For public entities, ASU 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted in any interim period or fiscal year. For cash flow and net investment hedges existing at the date of adoption, the standard requires a cumulative-effect adjustment to eliminate the separate measurement of ineffectiveness to accumulated other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The amended presentation and disclosure guidance is required only prospectively. The Company early adopted ASU 2017-12 in the first quarter of 2018, and recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss of $3 million with a corresponding decrease in the opening balance of retained earnings.6Table of ContentsIn October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. Under ASU 2016-16, entities must recognize the income tax consequences when the transfer occurs rather than deferring recognition. For public entities, ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Entities must apply the guidance on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. The Company adopted ASU 2016-16 in the first quarter of 2018, and the adoption did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. For public entities, ASU 2016-01 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Entities must apply the standard, with certain exceptions, using a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 in the first quarter of 2018, and the adoption did not have any impact on its consolidated financial statements.In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. ASU 2014-09 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific requirements. It also includes guidance on accounting for the incremental costs of obtaining and costs incurred to fulfill a contract with a customer. The core principle of the revenue model is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This model involves a five-step process for achieving that core principle, along with comprehensive disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. For public entities, the new revenue standard is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Entities have the option of adopting this new guidance using either a full retrospective or a modified approach with the cumulative effect of applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application.The Company adopted the new standard effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition approach applied to all contracts, which resulted in a cumulative-effect increase in the opening balance of retained earnings of $208 million, primarily related to the deferral of incremental sales commissions incurred in obtaining contracts in prior periods. For public entities, ASU 2018-15 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. Entities are permitted to apply either a retrospective or prospective transition approach to adopt the guidance. The Company is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of ASU 2018-15 will have on its consolidated financial statements.In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. ASU 2018-13 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019, with the additional disclosures required to be applied prospectively and the modified and removed disclosures required to be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. Entities are permitted to early adopt the removed or modified disclosures and delay the adoption of the additional disclosures until the effective date. The Company is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of ASU 2018-13 will have on its consolidated financial statements.In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. For public entities, ASU 2018-07 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. Entities must apply the standard, using a modified retrospective transition approach, with a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption for all liability-classified nonemployee awards that have not been settled as of the adoption date and equity-classified nonemployee awards for which a measurement date has not been established. The Company plans to adopt ASU 2018-07 on January 1, 2019 and does not expect the adoption to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. Under this model, an estimate of expected credit losses over the contractual life of the instrument is to be recorded as of the end of a reporting period as an allowance to offset the amortized cost basis, resulting in a net presentation of the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset. For public entities, ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. For most instruments, entities must apply the standard using a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-13 will have on its consolidated financial statements.In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. The recognized liability is measured at the present value of lease payments not yet paid, and the corresponding asset represents the lessee’s right to use the underlying asset over the lease term and is based on the liability, subject to certain adjustments. For income statement purposes, the standard retains the dual model with leases classified as either operating or finance. Operating leases will result in straight-line expense while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. The standard prescribes a modified retrospective transition approach for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. For public entities, ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted.The Company continues to review the requirements of the new lease standard, including the activity of the FASB as it relates to interpretive guidance and additional practical expedients. The Company has formed a cross-functional project team which is currently in the process of evaluating its existing lease arrangements and assessing potential impacts of adopting the new lease standard on its consolidated financial statements, related disclosures, accounting policies, process and system changes, and controls. The Company has completed the planning and design phases of the project, including the selection of a lease accounting software solution to comply with the new standard, and has engaged an implementation partner to assist with the adoption.While the Company continues to evaluate other practical expedients available under the guidance, it expects to elect the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within ASU 2016-02 to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and, therefore, does not anticipate a material impact on its consolidated statements of income. While the Company is continuing to assess the effects of adoption, it currently believes the most significant changes relate to the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its consolidated balance sheets for real and personal property operating leases, as well as the impact of new disclosure requirements. The Company plans to adopt ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019 and anticipates using the optional transition method in ASU 2018-11. Under this method, the Company would not adjust its comparative period financial statements for the effects of the new standard or make the new required lease disclosures for periods prior to the effective date.3. The cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606 was an increase in the opening balance of retained earnings of $208 million, primarily related to the deferral of incremental sales commissions incurred in obtaining contracts in prior periods.8Table of ContentsSignificant Accounting PolicyASC 606 outlines a single comprehensive model to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The core principle, involving a five-step process, of the revenue model is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.The Company generates revenue from the delivery of processing, service and product solutions. Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer, and excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer which may be at a point in time or over time.Taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction, that are collected by the Company from a customer, are excluded from revenue. Shipping and handling activities associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment activity and recognized as revenue at the point in time at which control of the goods transfers to the customer. Additional information regarding the Company’s business segments is included in Note 16. The following is a description of principal activities from which the Company generates its revenue. Contracts with customers are evaluated on a contract-by-contract basis as contracts may include multiple types of goods and services as described below.Processing and ServicesProcessing and services revenue is generated from account- and transaction-based fees for data processing, transaction processing, electronic billing and payment services, electronic funds transfer and debit processing services; consulting and professional services; and software maintenance for ongoing client support. The Company recognizes processing and services revenues in the period in which the specific service is performed unless they are not deemed distinct from other goods or services in which revenue would then be recognized as control is transferred of the combined goods and services. Fees for the Company’s processing and services arrangements are typically billed and paid on a monthly basis.ProductProduct revenue is generated from integrated print and card production sales, as well as software license sales. For software license agreements that are distinct, the Company recognizes software license revenue upon delivery, assuming a contract is deemed to exist. Revenue for arrangements with customers that include significant customization, modification or production of software such that the software is not distinct is typically recognized over time based upon efforts expended, such as labor hours, to measure progress towards completion. If these criteria are not met, the promised goods or services are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.Technology or service components from third parties are frequently embedded in or combined with the Company’s applications or service offerings. Whether the Company recognizes revenue based on the gross amount billed to a customer or the net amount retained involves judgment that depends on the relevant facts and circumstances including the level of contractual responsibilities and obligations for delivering solutions to end customers.Determination of Transaction PriceThe transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring products or services to the customer. The Company includes any fixed charges within its contracts as part of the total transaction price. To the extent that variable consideration is not constrained, the Company includes an estimate of the variable amount, as appropriate, within the total transaction price and updates its assumptions over the duration of the contract.Assessment of Estimates of Variable ConsiderationMany of the Company’s contracts with customers contain some component of variable consideration; however, the constraint will generally not result in a reduction in the estimated transaction price for most forms of variable consideration. The standalone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells each good or service. For items that are not sold separately, the Company estimates the standalone selling prices using available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines. In instances where there are observable selling prices for professional services and support and maintenance, the Company may apply the residual approach to estimate the standalone selling price of software licenses. Revenue is recognized when written contracts are signed, delivery has occurred, the fees are fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured.Processing and services revenue is recognized as services are provided and is primarily derived from contracts that generate account- and transaction-based fees for data processing, transaction processing, electronic billing and payment services, electronic funds transfer and debit processing services. In addition, processing and services revenue is derived from the fulfillment of professional services, including consulting activities. Certain of the Company’s revenue is generated from multiple element arrangements involving various combinations of product and service deliverables. The deliverables within these arrangements are evaluated at contract inception to determine whether they represent separate units of accounting, and if so, contract consideration is allocated to each deliverable based on relative selling price. The relative selling price is determined using vendor specific objective evidence of fair value, third-party evidence or best estimate of selling price. Revenue is then recognized in accordance with the appropriate revenue recognition guidance applicable to the respective elements. Also included in processing and services revenue is software maintenance fee revenue for ongoing client support, which is recognized ratably over the term of the applicable support period, generally 12 months. For software license agreements that do not require significant customization or modification, the Company recognizes software license revenue upon delivery, assuming persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the license fee is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Arrangements with customers 10Table of Contentsthat include significant customization, modification or production of software are accounted for under contract accounting, with revenue recognized using the percentage-of-completion method based upon efforts expended, such as labor hours, to measure progress towards completion. Changes in estimates for revenues, costs and profits are recognized in the period in which they are determinable and were not material for any period presented.The Company includes reimbursements from clients, such as postage and telecommunication costs, in processing and services revenue and product revenue, while the related costs are included in cost of processing and services and cost of product.Disaggregation of RevenueThe tables below present the Company’s revenue disaggregated by major business, including a reconciliation with its reportable segments. Most of the Company’s revenue is earned domestically within these major businesses, with revenue from clients outside the United States comprising approximately 5% of total revenue. Contract balances are reported in a net contract asset or liability position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, contract liabilities decreased primarily due to the recognition of deferred maintenance revenue. The higher contract liability balance at January 1, 2018 was primarily attributable to an increased level of annual maintenance billings in the fourth quarter of 2017 as compared to the first nine months of 2018. These contracts generally have terms of three to five years, and contain variable consideration for stand-ready performance obligations for which the exact quantity and mix of transactions to be processed are contingent upon the customer’s request. The Company also applies the optional exemptions in paragraph 606-10-50-14A and does not disclose information for variable consideration, including additional seat licenses, that is a sales-based or usage-based royalty promised in exchange for a license of intellectual property or that is allocated entirely to a wholly unsatisfied performance obligation or to a wholly unsatisfied promise to transfer a distinct good or service in a series. The amounts disclosed above as remaining performance obligations consist primarily of fixed or monthly minimum processing fees and maintenance fees under contracts with an original expected duration of greater than one year.Contract CostsThe Company incurs incremental costs to obtain a contract as well as costs to fulfill contracts with customers that are expected to be recovered. These costs consist primarily of sales commissions incurred only if a contract is obtained, and customer conversion or implementation related costs. Capitalized sales commissions and conversion or implementation costs totaled $310 million and $100 million, respectively, at September 30, 2018. Capitalized contract costs are amortized based on the transfer of goods or services to which the asset relates. The amortization period also considers expected customer lives and whether the asset relates to goods or services transferred under a specific anticipated contract. These costs are primarily included in selling, general and administrative expenses and totaled $23 million and $73 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. There was no impairment loss recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 related to capitalized contract costs.12Table of ContentsChange in Accounting PolicyExcept for the changes below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in its consolidated financial statements. The details of the significant changes and quantitative impact of the changes are disclosed below.Sales CommissionsThe Company previously recognized sales commission fees related to contracts with customers as selling expenses when incurred. Under ASC 606, the Company capitalizes incremental sales commission fees as costs of obtaining a contract and, if expected to be recovered, amortizes such costs using a portfolio approach consistent with the pattern of transfer of the good or service to which the asset relates.Termination FeesThe Company previously recognized customer contract termination fees at a point in time upon deconversion or receipt of a non-refundable cash payment. Under ASC 606, a contract termination is considered a contract modification and therefore the Company recognizes contract termination fees under the new standard over the remaining modified contract term.Contract Assets and LiabilitiesThe Company previously presented customer incentives and deferred revenue on a gross basis within its consolidated balance sheet. The OBS and PCLender acquisitions are included in the Financial segment as their products are integrated across a number of the Company’s account processing solutions and will enable the Company’s bank and credit union clients to better serve their commercial and mortgage customers. The Dovetail and Monitise acquisitions are included in the Payments segment and will further enable the Company to help financial institutions around the world transform their payments infrastructure and to expand its digital leadership, respectively.The Company acquired these four businesses for an aggregate purchase price of $384 million, net of $33 million of acquired cash, along with earn-out provisions estimated at a fair value of $15 million. The purchase price allocations for these acquisitions resulted in acquired software and technology and customer related intangible assets totaling $163 million and goodwill of $217 million. The other net assets of $19 million included $50 million of assets held for sale and approximately $20 million of deferred tax liabilities. The purchase price allocations were finalized for the OBS and PCLender acquisitions in 2017 and for the Dovetail and Monitise acquisitions in the first quarter of 2018, and did not materially change from the preliminary allocations. The goodwill from these acquisitions is primarily attributed to synergies and the anticipated value created by selling the products and services that these businesses provide into the Company’s existing client base. Approximately $70 million of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.The results of operations for these acquired businesses have been included in the accompanying consolidated statements of income from the dates of acquisition. This includes revenue of $21 million and $12 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $63 million and $16 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and impacts to operating income in each period of less than $6 million excluding acquired intangible asset amortization. Pro forma information for the Company’s acquisitions is not provided because they did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations.On October 31, 2018, the Company acquired the debit card processing, ATM Managed Services, and Money Pass® surcharge-free network of Elan Financial Services, a unit of U.S. Bancorp, for approximately $690 million, subject to post-closing adjustments.DispositionOn May 11, 2017, the Company sold its Australian item processing business, which was reported within the Financial segment, for approximately $17 million, consisting of $19 million in cash received at closing less a closing adjustment of $2 million finalized in the fourth quarter of 2017. The Company recognized a gain on the sale of $10 million, with the related tax expense of $5 million recorded through the income tax provision, in the consolidated statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.5. The corresponding assets of $50 million, consisting primarily of goodwill, were presented as held for sale in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017, and the corresponding proceeds received during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 are presented within discontinued operations since the business was never considered part of the Company’s ongoing operations. The Lending Joint Ventures, which were reported within the Financial segment, included all of the Company’s automotive loan origination and servicing products, as well as its LoanServTM mortgage and consumer loan servicing platform. The Company received gross sale proceeds of $419 million from the transactions. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of $227 million, with the related tax expense of $77 million recorded through the income tax provision, in the consolidated statements of income. The pre-tax gain includes $124 million related to the remeasurement of the Company’s 45% retained interests based upon the estimated enterprise value of the Lending Joint Ventures. Contingent consideration of up to $20 million under defined special distribution provisions within the transaction agreements is being accounted for by the Company as a gain contingency and will therefore be recognized in future periods to the extent the contingency is resolved and thereby realized. The Company’s remaining 45% ownership interests in the Lending Joint Ventures are accounted for as equity method investments, with the Company’s share of net income reported as income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates and the related tax expense reported within the income tax provision in the consolidated statements of income. The Company’s investment in the Lending Joint Ventures was $65 million at September 30, 2018 and is reported within other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The revenues and expenses of the Lending Joint Ventures after the sale transactions are not included in the Company’s consolidated statements of income. The Company’s consolidated financial statements for all periods prior to the sale transactions include the revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Lending Joint Ventures.Prior to the sale transactions described above, the Lending Joint Ventures entered into variable-rate term loan facilities for an aggregate amount of $350 million in senior unsecured debt and variable-rate revolving credit facilities for an aggregate amount of $35 million with a syndicate of banks, which transferred to the Lending Joint Ventures as part of the sale. The Company has guaranteed this debt of the Lending Joint Ventures and does not anticipate that the Lending Joint Ventures will fail to fulfill their debt obligations. These debt facilities mature in March 2023, and there are no outstanding borrowings on the revolving credit facilities as of September 30, 2018. The Company recorded an initial $34 million liability as a reduction to the gain on sale transactions for the estimated fair value of its obligations to stand ready to perform over the term of the guarantees, which is reported primarily within other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. Such guarantees will be amortized in future periods over the contractual term. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recognized $1 million and $3 million, respectively, within non-operating income in its consolidated statements of income related to its release from risk under the guarantees. The Company has not made any payments under the guarantees, nor has it been called upon to do so. In conjunction with the sale transactions described above, the Company also entered into certain transition services agreements to provide, at fair value, various administration, business process outsourcing, technical and data center related services for defined periods to the Lending Joint Ventures. The Company reports its share of StoneRiver’s net income as income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate, with the related tax expense reported within the income tax provision, in the consolidated statements of income. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, StoneRiver recognized a gain on the sale of a business. The Company’s pre-tax share of the gain was $26 million, with related tax expense of $9 million. During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the Company received cash dividends of $44 million from StoneRiver, which were funded from recent sale transactions and recorded as reductions in the Company’s investment in StoneRiver. These dividends exceeded the Company’s investment carrying amount, resulting in the reduction of its investment balance to zero, with the excess cash dividend of $5 million recorded as income, with related tax expense of $2 million, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017. The dividends, in their entirety, represented returns on the Company’s investment and are reported in cash flows from operating activities.19Table of Contents7. Share-Based CompensationThe Company recognized $18 million and $54 million of share-based compensation expense during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and $15 million and $48 million of share-based compensation expense during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. The Company’s annual grant of share-based awards generally occurs in the first quarter. Income TaxesIncome tax provision as a percentage of income before income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates was 25.4% and 30.1% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and was 24.5% and 31.5% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The lower rates in 2018 were primarily attributable to the enactment of the Tax Act, which reduced the U.S federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent beginning in 2018, and is further described below. The rates include $77 million of income tax expense associated with the $227 million gain on the sale of a 55% interest of the Company’s Lending Solutions business in the first quarter of 2018 and $9 million of income tax expense associated with the Company’s share of the gain on the sale of a business at StoneRiver in the first quarter of 2017.On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Internal Revenue Service issued new guidance affecting the computation of the Company’s 2017 federal income tax liability. As a result of this new guidance and additional analysis of the impacts of the Tax Act, the Company revised its prior estimates and recorded $19 million of tax expense related to the Tax Act during the three months ended September 30, 2018. The Company’s accounting for certain elements of the Tax Act continues to be evaluated and remains incomplete as of September 30, 2018; however, any associated impacts are not expected to be material.9. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, stock options for 1.0 million and 1.5 million shares, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted weighted-average outstanding shares because their impact was anti-dilutive.10. Fair Value MeasurementsThe Company applies fair value accounting for all assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in its consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis. Fair value represents the amount that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market and the market-based risk measurements or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.The fair values of cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, settlement assets and obligations, accounts payable, and client deposits approximate their respective carrying values due to the short period of time to maturity. The estimated fair value of total debt was $5.3 billion at September 30, 2018 and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2017. This estimated fair value has not changed since the acquisition date. The aggregate fair values of the Company’s debt guarantee arrangements with the Lending Joint Ventures approximate the $31 million carrying values at September 30, 2018. The contingent consideration and debt guarantee liabilities are reported primarily in other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.11. Amortization expense with respect to capitalized and purchased software recorded at September 30, 2018 is estimated to approximate $180 million in 2018.21Table of Contents12. Long-Term DebtIn September 2018, the Company entered into an amended and restated revolving credit agreement that restated its existing $2.0 billion revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of banks and extended its maturity from April 2020 to September 2023. Borrowings under the amended and restated revolving credit facility continue to bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR or on a base rate, plus in each case a specified margin based on the Company’s long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. There are no significant commitment fees and no compensating balance requirements. The notes pay interest semi-annually on April 1 and October 1, commencing on April 1, 2019. The interest rate applicable to these notes is subject to an increase of up to one percent in the event that the credit rating assigned to such notes is downgraded below investment grade. In addition, the Company commenced a cash tender offer in September 2018 for any and all of its outstanding $450 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior notes due October 2020. Upon expiration of the tender offer on September 26, 2018, $246 million was tendered and $253 million was paid to all holders of such tendered notes in October 2018. The Company recorded a pre-tax loss on early debt extinguishment of $8 million in the third quarter of 2018 related to the tender offer. At September 30, 2018, the Company’s $450 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior notes were classified in the consolidated balance sheet as short-term given the planned full redemption of such notes. In October 2018, the Company retired the remaining outstanding $204 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior notes, resulting in a pre-tax loss on early debt extinguishment of $6 million.22Table of Contents14. For a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss with an offsetting adjustment to the basis of the item being hedged. Changes in fair value are then recognized in the consolidated statements of income when the hedged item affects earnings, reported within the same line as the hedged item. The Company’s policy is to enter into derivatives with creditworthy institutions and not to enter into such derivatives for speculative purposes.The Company has entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge foreign currency exposure to the Indian Rupee. As of September 30, 2018, the notional amount of these derivatives was $167 million, and the fair value totaling $11 million is reported in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2017, the notional amount of these derivatives was $150 million, and the fair value totaling $8 million is reported in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the consolidated balance sheet. Based on the amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss at September 30, 2018, the Company estimates that it will recognize losses of approximately $8 million in cost of processing and services during the next twelve months as foreign currency forward exchange contracts settle.15. Business Segment InformationThe Company’s operations are comprised of the Payments segment and the Financial segment. The Payments segment primarily provides electronic bill payment and presentment services, internet and mobile banking software and services, account-to-account transfers, person-to-person payment services, debit and credit card processing and services, payments infrastructure services, and other electronic payments software and services. The businesses in this segment also provide card and print personalization services, investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, and fraud and risk management products and services. The Financial segment provides financial institutions with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Corporate and Other primarily consists of intercompany eliminations, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, unallocated corporate expenses and other activities that are not considered when management evaluates segment performance, such as gains on sales of businesses and associated transition services. Goodwill in the Financial segment was $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.24Table of ContentsITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSForward-Looking StatementsThis quarterly report contains “forward-looking statements” intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those that express a plan, belief, expectation, estimation, anticipation, intent, contingency, future development or similar expression, and can generally be identified as forward-looking because they include words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “could,” “should” or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe our future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report involve significant risks and uncertainties, and a number of factors, both foreseen and unforeseen, could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report.Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to our unaudited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes to help provide an understanding of our financial condition, the changes in our financial condition and our results of operations. This section contains background information on our company and the services and products that we provide, acquisitions and dispositions, our enterprise priorities, and the trends affecting our industry in order to provide context for management’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations.•Changes in critical accounting policies and estimates. This section contains a discussion of changes since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 in the accounting policies that we believe are important to our financial condition and results of operations and that require judgment and estimates on the part of management in their application.•Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying unaudited consolidated statements of income by comparing the results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 to the comparable periods in 2017.•Liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our outstanding debt as of September 30, 2018.OverviewCompany BackgroundWe are a leading global provider of financial services technology. We provide account processing systems, electronic payments processing products and services, internet and mobile banking systems, and related services. We serve over 12,000 clients worldwide, including banks, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, billers, retailers, and merchants. The majority of our revenue is generated from recurring account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally have terms of three to five years and high renewal rates. The Payments segment primarily provides electronic bill payment and presentment services, internet and mobile banking software and services, account-to-account transfers, person-to-person payment services, debit and credit card processing and services, payments infrastructure services, and other electronic payments software and services. Our businesses in this segment also provide card and print personalization services, investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, and fraud and risk management products 25Table of Contentsand services. The Financial segment provides financial institutions with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Corporate and Other primarily consists of intercompany eliminations, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, unallocated corporate expenses and other activities that are not considered when management evaluates segment performance, such as gains on sales of businesses and associated transition services.On February 21, 2018, our board of directors declared a two-for-one stock split of our common stock and a proportionate increase in the number of our authorized shares of common stock. The additional shares were distributed on March 19, 2018 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 5, 2018. Our common stock began trading at the split-adjusted price on March 20, 2018. All share and per share amounts are retroactively presented on a split-adjusted basis.Acquisitions and DispositionsWe frequently review our portfolio to ensure we have the right set of businesses to execute on our strategy. In conjunction with this transaction, we entered into certain transition services agreements to provide, at fair value, various administration, business process outsourcing, technical and data center related services for defined periods to the Lending Joint Ventures. We received gross sale proceeds of $419 million from the transactions. The OBS and PCLender acquisitions are included in the Financial segment as their products are integrated across a number of our account processing solutions and will enable our bank and credit union clients to better serve their commercial and mortgage customers. The Dovetail and Monitise acquisitions are included in the Payments segment and will further enable us to help financial institutions around the world transform their payments infrastructure and to expand our digital leadership, respectively.Enterprise PrioritiesWe continue to implement a series of strategic initiatives to move money and information in a way that moves the world. These strategic initiatives include active portfolio management of our businesses, enhancing the overall value of our existing client relationships, improving operational effectiveness, being disciplined in our allocation of capital, and differentiating our products and services through innovation. The traditional financial industry and other market entrants regularly introduce and implement new payment, deposit, lending, investment and risk management products, and the distinctions among the products and services traditionally offered by different types of financial institutions continue to narrow as they seek to serve the same customers. At the same time, the evolving regulatory and cybersecurity landscape has continued to create a challenging operating environment for financial institutions. For example, legislation such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has generated, and may continue to 26Table of Contentsgenerate, new regulations impacting the financial industry. These conditions are driving heightened interest in solutions that help financial institutions win and retain customers, generate incremental revenue, comply with regulations and enhance operating efficiency. Examples of these solutions include electronic payments and delivery methods such as internet, mobile and tablet banking, sometimes referred to as “digital channels.”The focus on digital channels by both financial institutions and their customers, as well as the growing volume and types of payment transactions in the marketplace, continues to elevate the data and transaction processing needs of financial institutions. We expect that financial institutions will continue to invest significant capital and human resources to process transactions, manage information, maintain regulatory compliance and offer innovative new services to their customers in this rapidly evolving and competitive environment. We anticipate that we will benefit over the long term from the trend of financial institutions moving from in-house technology to outsourced solutions as they seek to remain current on technology changes in an evolving marketplace. We believe that economies of scale in developing and maintaining the infrastructure, technology, products, services and networks necessary to be competitive in such an environment are essential to justify these investments, and we anticipate that demand for products that facilitate customer interaction with financial institutions, including electronic transactions through digital channels, will continue to increase, which we expect to create revenue opportunities for us. In addition to the trends described above, the financial institutions marketplace has experienced change in composition as well. During the past 25 years, the number of financial institutions in the United States has declined at a relatively steady rate of approximately 3% per year, primarily as a result of voluntary mergers and acquisitions. Rather than reducing the overall market, these consolidations have transferred accounts among financial institutions. If a client loss occurs due to merger or acquisition, we receive a contract termination fee based on the size of the client and how early in the contract term the contract is terminated. These fees can vary from period to period. Our revenue is diversified, and we have clients that span the entire range of financial institutions in terms of asset size and business model, with our 50 largest financial institution clients representing less than 25% of our annual revenue. Our focus on long-term client relationships and recurring, transaction-oriented products and services has also reduced the impact that consolidation in the financial services industry has had on us. We believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients by providing, among other things, new sources of revenue and opportunities to reduce their costs. Furthermore, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring revenue-based products and services, gives us a solid foundation for growth.Changes in Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesOur consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, we identified our critical accounting policies and estimates. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements, including for recently adopted accounting pronouncements, and base our estimates on historical experience and assumptions that we believe are reasonable in light of current circumstances. Actual amounts and results could differ materially from these estimates. Additional information about our revenue recognition policies and the related impact of the adoption is included in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements.There have been no other material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.27Table of ContentsResults of OperationsThe following table presents certain amounts included in our consolidated statements of income, the relative percentage that those amounts represent to revenue and the change in those amounts from year to year. This information should be read together with the unaudited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Revenue growth at our card services and biller solutions businesses contributed approximately 3% and 1%, respectively, to the Payments segment growth in both the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 largely due to increased transaction volumes. In addition, revenue from businesses acquired in 2017 contributed 1% and 2% to Payments segment revenue growth in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively.Revenue in our Financial segment decreased $45 million, or 7%, and $82 million, or 4%, during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, compared to 2017. The Financial segment revenue decline was attributable to dispositions, which reduced Financial segment revenue growth by 11% and 8% in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, 29Table of Contentscompared to 2017. Partially offsetting this decline, our account processing businesses contributed 3% to the Financial segment revenue growth in both the third quarter and first nine months of 2018.Revenue at Corporate and Other increased $9 million and $20 million during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, compared to 2017, primarily due to transition services revenue from the Lending Joint Ventures.Total ExpensesTotal expenses increased $26 million, or 3%, and decreased $123 million, or 4%, in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, compared to the prior year periods. Total expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased to 74.8% in the third quarter of 2018 and decreased to 69.0% in the first nine months of 2018, compared to the prior year periods. Total expenses and total expenses as a percentage of total revenue in the first nine months of 2018 were reduced by the $227 million gain on sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business.Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue decreased to 46.4% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to 47.7% in the third quarter of 2017 and decreased to 46.2% in the first nine months of 2018 compared to 48.1% in the first nine months of 2017. Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue was favorably impacted by scalable revenue growth in our Payments segment by approximately 80 basis points and 100 basis points in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively. In addition, our account processing businesses contributed approximately 100 basis points and 80 basis points to the improvement in cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, driven by product mix and expense management. Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue was negatively impacted by approximately 70 basis points and 20 basis points in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as a result of client-focused incremental investments.Cost of product as a percentage of product revenue increased to 95.8% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to 86.6% in the third quarter of 2017 and increased to 91.2% in the first nine months of 2018 compared to 86.1% in the first nine months of 2017. Cost of product as a percentage of product revenue in each period of 2018 was primarily impacted by additional expenses associated with product development. In addition, cost of product as a percentage of product revenue in the third quarter of 2018 was negatively impacted by approximately 400 basis points due to a decrease in higher-margin software license revenue.Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased to 21.6% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to 20.3% in the third quarter of 2017 and increased to 21.8% in the first nine months of 2018 compared to 20.0% in the first nine months of 2017. Increased costs associated with acquisitions negatively impacted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 20 basis points and 70 basis points in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively. The disposition of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business increased selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue in each of the 2018 periods compared to 2017 by approximately 60 basis points.The gain on sale of businesses of $227 million in 2018 and $10 million in 2017 was driven by the sales of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business and our Australian item processing business, respectively.Operating Income and Operating MarginTotal operating income decreased $14 million, or 4%, and increased $215 million, or 19%, in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, compared to the prior year periods. Total operating margin decreased to 25.2% in the third quarter of 2018 and increased to 31.0% in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the prior year periods.Operating income in our Payments segment increased $14 million, or 6%, in the third quarter and $57 million, or 8%, in the first nine months of 2018 compared to 2017. Operating margin decreased 20 basis points to 31.5% in the third quarter of 2018 and increased 40 basis points to 32.0% in the first nine months of 2018 compared to 2017. Scalable revenue growth positively impacted Payments segment operating margin in each period of 2018 by approximately 130 basis points. Payments segment operating margin was negatively impacted in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 by 30 basis points and 80 basis points, respectively, from the 2017 Payments segment acquisitions and by approximately 80 basis points and 30 basis points, respectively, from client-focused incremental investments.Operating income in our Financial segment decreased $17 million, or 8%, and $24 million, or 4%, in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, compared to 2017, as a result of dispositions. Operating margin decreased 40 basis points to 32.7% in the third quarter of 2018 and increased 20 basis points to 33.2% in the first nine months of 2018 compared to 2017. Financial segment operating margin in each period of 2018 was reduced by approximately 150 basis points due to the 30Table of Contentsdisposition of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business, offset primarily by contributions from our account processing businesses related to product mix and expense management.The operating loss in Corporate and Other increased by $11 million and decreased by $182 million in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, compared to the prior year periods. An increase in variable compensation expenses negatively impacted Corporate and Other in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017. Corporate and Other was favorably impacted by gains of $227 million and $10 million from the sales of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business in the first quarter of 2018 and the sale of our Australian item processing business in the second quarter of 2017, respectively. Corporate and Other activity also reflects increased acquisition and related integration costs of $13 million and increased data center consolidation costs of $10 million in the first nine months of 2018 compared to 2017.Interest ExpenseInterest expense increased $2 million, or 4%, and $6 million, or 5%, in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, compared to the prior year periods, primarily due to higher variable interest rates in 2018.Loss on Early Debt ExtinguishmentIn September 2018, we commenced a cash tender offer for any and all of our outstanding $450 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior notes due October 2020, of which $246 million was tendered, resulting in a pre-tax loss on early debt extinguishment of $8 million recorded in the third quarter of 2018.Non-Operating IncomeNon-operating income in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 includes $2 million and $3 million, respectively, of interest income, and $1 million and $3 million, respectively, related to the fulfillment of our stand-ready obligations to perform over the term of the Lending Joint Ventures debt guarantees and the associated release from risk. Non-operating income of $2 million in the first nine months of 2017 was primarily attributable to an unrealized gain on a foreign currency hedge related to our Monitise acquisition. Income Tax ProvisionIncome tax provision as a percentage of income before income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates was 25.4% and 30.1% in the third quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and was 24.5% and 31.5% in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The lower rates in 2018 were primarily attributable to federal tax reform which reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent beginning in 2018. In addition, during the third quarter of 2018, the Internal Revenue Service issued new guidance affecting the computation of our 2017 federal income tax liability. Income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates was $1 million and $8 million in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, and was primarily comprised of our share of operational earnings from the Lending Joint Ventures. Our share of StoneRiver’s net income was $31 million in the first nine months of 2017 and was attributable to the net gain on the sale of a business at StoneRiver in the first quarter.Net Income Per Share – DilutedNet income per share-diluted was $0.55 and $0.54 in the third quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and was $2.16 and $1.62 in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. Net income per share-diluted was favorably impacted in the first nine months of 2018 by a gain of $0.36 per share on the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets reduced net income per share-diluted by $0.08 and $0.06 per share in the third quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and by $0.23 and $0.18 per share in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. We believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flow generated by our operations, along with our cash and cash equivalents of $673 million and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility of $2.0 billion at September 30, 2018. The following table summarizes our operating cash flow and capital expenditure amounts for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. This decrease was attributable to an approximate $50 million impact of accounts receivable timing, other working capital fluctuations including a $23 million tax payment resulting from new guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service regarding the Tax Act, and $43 million of lower cash dividends received from StoneRiver, partially offset by improved operating results. The dividends received in 2018 and 2017 represented returns on our investment and are reported in cash flows from operating activities. Our current policy is to use our operating cash flow primarily to fund capital expenditures, share repurchases and acquisitions, and to repay debt rather than to pay dividends. Our capital expenditures were approximately 6% and 5% of our total revenue in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.Share RepurchasesWe purchased $1.23 billion and $983 million of our common stock during the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. On each of November 16, 2016 and August 8, 2018, our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 30.0 million shares of our common stock. As of September 30, 2018, we had approximately 34.9 million shares remaining under these authorizations. Shares repurchased are generally held for issuance in connection with our equity plans.Acquisitions and DispositionsDuring the first nine months of 2018, we sold a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business, retaining 45% ownership interests in the joint ventures. We received gross sale proceeds of $419 million from the transactions. On October 31, 2018, we acquired the debit card processing, ATM Managed Services, and Money Pass® surcharge-free network of Elan Financial Services, a unit of U.S. Bancorp, for approximately $690 million, subject to post-closing adjustments.During the first nine months of 2017, we completed four acquisitions for an aggregate purchase price of $383 million, net of $33 million of acquired cash, with earn-out provisions of up to $20 million. We funded the acquisitions by utilizing a combination of available cash and existing availability under our revolving credit facility. Interest on our senior notes is paid semi-annually. During the first nine months of September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all financial debt covenants.Revolving Credit FacilityIn September 2018, we entered into an amended and restated revolving credit agreement that restated our existing $2.0 billion revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of banks and extended its maturity from April 2020 to September 2023. Borrowings under the amended and restated revolving credit facility continue to bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR or on a base rate, plus in each case a specified margin based on our long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. There are no significant commitment fees and no compensating balance requirements. The notes pay interest semi-annually on April 1 and October 1, commencing on April 1, 2019. The interest rate applicable to these notes is subject to an increase of up to one percent in the event that the credit rating assigned to such notes is downgraded below investment grade. In addition, we commenced a cash tender offer in September 2018 for any and all of our outstanding $450 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior notes due October 2020. Upon expiration of the tender offer on September 26, 2018, $246 million was tendered and $253 million was paid to all holders of such tendered notes in October 2018. In October 2018, we also retired the remaining outstanding $204 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior notes.33Table of ContentsDebt GuaranteesIn connection with the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business in March 2018, we have guaranteed underlying debt of the Lending Joint Ventures and do not anticipate that the Lending Joint Ventures will fail to fulfill their debt obligations. This debt is comprised of variable-rate term loan facilities for an aggregate amount of $350 million in senior unsecured debt and variable-rate revolving credit facilities for an aggregate amount of $35 million with a syndicate of banks. These debt facilities mature in March 2023, and there are no outstanding borrowings on the revolving credit facilities as of September 30, 2018. We have not made any payments under the guarantees, nor have we been called upon to do so. ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKThe quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk required by this item are incorporated by reference to Item 7A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and have not materially changed since December 31, 2017.ITEM 4. Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2018.Changes in internal control over financial reportingThere was no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended September 30, 2018 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSIn the normal course of business, we or our subsidiaries are named as defendants in lawsuits in which claims are asserted against us. In the opinion of management, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from such lawsuits are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.ITEM 2. These authorizations do not expire.34Table of ContentsITEM 6. FISERV, INC.