FINANCIAL INFORMATIONITEM 1. Basis of PresentationThe consolidated financial statements for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 are unaudited. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements have been included. Such adjustments consisted of normal recurring items. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. Additional information about the Company’s revenue recognition policies and the related impact of the adoption is included in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Principles of ConsolidationThe consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Fiserv, Inc. and all 100% owned subsidiaries. Investments in less than 50% owned affiliates in which the Company has significant influence but not control are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.Stock SplitOn February 21, 2018, the Company’s board of directors declared a two-for-one stock split of the Company’s common stock and a proportionate increase in the number of its authorized shares of common stock. The additional shares were distributed on March 19, 2018 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 5, 2018. The Company’s common stock began trading at the split-adjusted price on March 20, 2018. All share and per share amounts are retroactively presented on a split-adjusted basis. The impact on the consolidated balance sheets of the stock split was an increase of $4 million to common stock and an offsetting reduction in additional paid-in capital, which has been retroactively restated.2. ASU 2018-02 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company early adopted ASU 2018-02 in the first quarter of 2018, and elected to reclassify the Tax Act income tax benefits of $3 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings.In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. For public entities, ASU 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted in any interim period or fiscal year. For cash flow and net investment hedges existing at the date of adoption, the standard requires a cumulative-effect adjustment to eliminate the separate measurement of ineffectiveness to accumulated other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The amended presentation and disclosure guidance is required only prospectively. The Company early adopted ASU 2017-12 in the first quarter of 2018, and recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss of $3 million with a corresponding decrease in the opening balance of retained earnings.6Table of ContentsIn October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. Under ASU 2016-16, entities must recognize the income tax consequences when the transfer occurs rather than deferring recognition. For public entities, ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Entities must apply the guidance on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. The Company adopted ASU 2016-16 in the first quarter of 2018, and the adoption did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. For public entities, ASU 2016-01 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Entities must apply the standard, with certain exceptions, using a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 in the first quarter of 2018, and the adoption did not have any impact on its consolidated financial statements.In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. ASU 2014-09 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific requirements. It also includes guidance on accounting for the incremental costs of obtaining and costs incurred to fulfill a contract with a customer. The core principle of the revenue model is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This model involves a five-step process for achieving that core principle, along with comprehensive disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. For public entities, the new revenue standard is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Entities have the option of adopting this new guidance using either a full retrospective or a modified approach with the cumulative effect of applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application.The Company adopted the new standard effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition approach applied to all contracts, which resulted in a cumulative-effect increase in the opening balance of retained earnings of $208 million, primarily related to the deferral of incremental sales commissions incurred in obtaining contracts in prior periods. Under this model, an estimate of expected credit losses over the contractual life of the instrument is to be recorded as of the end of a reporting period as an allowance to offset the amortized cost basis, resulting in a net presentation of the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset. For public entities, ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. For most instruments, entities must apply the standard using a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-13 will have on its consolidated financial statements.In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. The recognized liability is measured at the present value of lease payments not yet paid, and the corresponding asset represents the lessee’s right to use the underlying asset over the lease term and is based on the liability, subject to certain adjustments. For income statement purposes, the standard retains the dual model with leases classified as either operating or finance. Operating leases will result in straight-line expense while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. The standard prescribes a modified retrospective transition approach for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. For public entities, ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company plans to adopt ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019.7Table of ContentsThe Company is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements. The Company is reviewing the requirements of the new lease standard and monitoring the activity of the FASB as it relates to any interpretive guidance, proposed amendments or additional practical expedients. The Company has formed a cross-functional project team to review its existing lease arrangements and assess potential impacts of adopting the new lease standard on its consolidated financial statements, related disclosures, accounting policies, process and system changes, and controls.3. The cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606 was an increase in the opening balance of retained earnings of $208 million, primarily related to the deferral of incremental sales commissions incurred in obtaining contracts in prior periods.Significant Accounting PolicyASC 606 outlines a single comprehensive model to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The core principle, involving a five-step process, of the revenue model is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.The Company generates revenue from the delivery of processing, service and product solutions. Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer, and excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer which may be at a point in time or over time.Taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction, that are collected by the Company from a customer, are excluded from revenue. Shipping and handling activities associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment activity and recognized as revenue at the point in time at which control of the goods transfers to the customer. Additional information regarding the Company’s business segments is included in Note 14. The following is a description of principal activities from which the Company generates its revenue. Contracts with customers are evaluated on a contract-by-contract basis as contracts may include multiple types of goods and services as described below.Processing and ServicesProcessing and services revenue is generated from account- and transaction-based fees for data processing, transaction processing, electronic billing and payment services, electronic funds transfer and debit processing services; consulting and professional services; and software maintenance for ongoing client support. The Company recognizes processing and services revenues in the period in which the specific service is performed unless they are not deemed distinct from other goods or services in which revenue would then be recognized as control is transferred of the combined goods and services. Fees for the Company’s processing and services arrangements are typically billed and paid on a monthly basis.8Table of ContentsProductProduct revenue is generated from integrated print and card production sales, as well as software license sales. For software license agreements that are distinct, the Company recognizes software license revenue upon delivery, assuming a contract is deemed to exist. Revenue for arrangements with customers that include significant customization, modification or production of software such that the software is not distinct is typically recognized over time based upon efforts expended, such as labor hours, to measure progress towards completion. If these criteria are not met, the promised goods or services are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.Technology or service components from third parties are frequently embedded in or combined with the Company’s applications or service offerings. Whether the Company recognizes revenue based on the gross amount billed to a customer or the net amount retained involves judgment that depends on the relevant facts and circumstances including the level of contractual responsibilities and obligations for delivering solutions to end customers.Determination of Transaction PriceThe transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring products or services to the customer. The Company includes any fixed charges within its contracts as part of the total transaction price. To the extent that variable consideration is not constrained, the Company includes an estimate of the variable amount, as appropriate, within the total transaction price and updates its assumptions over the duration of the contract.Assessment of Estimates of Variable ConsiderationMany of the Company’s contracts with customers contain some component of variable consideration; however, the constraint will generally not result in a reduction in the estimated transaction price for most forms of variable consideration. The standalone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells each good or service. For items that are not sold separately, the Company estimates the standalone selling prices using available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines. In instances where there are observable selling prices for professional services and support and maintenance, the Company may apply the residual approach to estimate the standalone selling price of software licenses. Revenue is recognized when written contracts are signed, delivery has occurred, the fees are fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured.Processing and services revenue is recognized as services are provided and is primarily derived from contracts that generate account- and transaction-based fees for data processing, transaction processing, electronic billing and payment services, electronic funds transfer and debit processing services. In addition, processing and services revenue is derived from the fulfillment of professional services, including consulting activities. Certain of the Company’s revenue is generated from multiple element arrangements involving various combinations of product and service deliverables. The deliverables within these arrangements are evaluated at contract inception to determine whether they represent separate units of accounting, and if so, contract consideration is allocated to each deliverable based on relative selling price. The relative selling price is determined using vendor specific objective evidence of fair value, third-party evidence or best estimate of selling price. Revenue is then recognized in accordance with the appropriate revenue recognition guidance applicable to the respective elements. Also included in processing and services revenue is software maintenance fee revenue for ongoing client support, which is recognized ratably over the term of the applicable support period, generally 12 months. For software license agreements that do not require significant customization or modification, the Company recognizes software license revenue upon delivery, assuming persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the license fee is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Arrangements with customers that include significant customization, modification or production of software are accounted for under contract accounting, with revenue recognized using the percentage-of-completion method based upon efforts expended, such as labor hours, to measure progress towards completion. Changes in estimates for revenues, costs and profits are recognized in the period in which they are determinable and were not material for any period presented.The Company includes reimbursements from clients, such as postage and telecommunication costs, in processing and services revenue and product revenue, while the related costs are included in cost of processing and services and cost of product.Disaggregation of RevenueThe table below presents the Company’s revenue disaggregated by major business, including a reconciliation with its reportable segments. Most of the Company’s revenue is earned domestically within these major businesses, with revenue from clients outside the United States comprising approximately 5% of total revenue. Contract balances are reported in a net contract asset or liability position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.During the three months ended March 31, 2018, contract liabilities decreased primarily due to the recognition of deferred maintenance revenue. The higher contract liability balance at January 1, 2018 was primarily attributed to an increased level of annual maintenance billings in the fourth quarter of 2017 as compared to the first quarter of 2018. These contracts generally have terms of three to five years, and contain variable consideration for stand-ready performance obligations for which the exact quantity and mix of transactions to be processed are contingent upon the customer’s request. The Company also applies the optional exemptions in paragraph 606-10-50-14A and does not disclose information for variable consideration, including additional seat licenses, that is a sales-based or usage-based royalty promised in exchange for a license of intellectual property or that is allocated entirely to a wholly unsatisfied performance obligation or to a wholly unsatisfied promise to transfer a distinct good or service in a series. The amounts disclosed above as remaining performance obligations consist primarily of fixed or monthly minimum processing fees and maintenance fees under contracts with an original expected duration of greater than one year.Contract CostsThe Company incurs incremental costs to obtain a contract as well as costs to fulfill contracts with customers that are expected to be recovered. These costs consist primarily of sales commissions incurred only if a contract is obtained and customer conversion or implementation related costs. Capitalized sales commissions and conversion or implementation costs totaled $312 million and $89 million, respectively, at March 31, 2018. Capitalized contract costs are amortized based on the transfer of goods or services to which the asset relates. The amortization period also considers expected customer lives and whether the asset relates to goods or services transferred under a specific anticipated contract. These costs are primarily included in selling, general and administrative expenses and totaled $24 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018. There was no impairment loss recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to capitalized contract costs.Change in Accounting PolicyExcept for the changes below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in its consolidated financial statements. The details of the significant changes and quantitative impact of the changes are disclosed below.11Table of ContentsSales CommissionsThe Company previously recognized sales commission fees related to contracts with customers as selling expenses when incurred. Under ASC 606, the Company capitalizes incremental sales commission fees as costs of obtaining a contract and, if expected to be recovered, amortizes such costs using a portfolio approach consistent with the pattern of transfer of the good or service to which the asset relates.Termination FeesThe Company previously recognized customer contract termination fees at a point in time upon deconversion or receipt of a non-refundable cash payment. Under ASC 606, a contract termination is considered a contract modification and therefore the Company recognizes contract termination fees under the new standard over the remaining modified contract term.Contract Assets and LiabilitiesThe Company previously presented customer incentives and deferred revenue on a gross basis within its consolidated balance sheet. The OBS and PCLender acquisitions are included in the Financial segment as their products are integrated across a number of the Company’s account processing solutions and will enable the Company’s bank and credit union clients to better serve their commercial and mortgage customers. The Dovetail and Monitise acquisitions are included in the Payments segment and will further enable the Company to help financial institutions around the world transform their payments infrastructure and to expand its digital leadership, respectively.The Company acquired these four businesses for an aggregate purchase price of $384 million, net of $33 million of acquired cash, along with earn-out provisions estimated at a fair value of $15 million. The purchase price allocations for these acquisitions resulted in acquired software and technology and customer related intangible assets totaling $163 million and goodwill of $217 million. The other net assets of $19 million include $50 million of assets held for sale and approximately $20 million of deferred tax liabilities. The purchase price allocations were finalized for the OBS and PCLender acquisitions in 2017 and for the Dovetail and Monitise acquisitions in the first quarter of 2018, and did not materially change from the preliminary allocations. The goodwill from these acquisitions is primarily attributed to synergies and the anticipated value created by selling the products and services that these businesses provide into the Company’s existing client base. Approximately $70 million of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.The results of operations for these acquired businesses have been included in the accompanying consolidated statements of income from the dates of acquisition. This includes revenue of $21 million and $2 million in the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and impacts to operating income in each period of less than $3 million excluding acquired intangible asset amortization. The corresponding assets of $50 million, consisting primarily of goodwill, are presented as held for sale in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017, and the corresponding proceeds received during the first quarter of 2018 are presented within discontinued operations since the business was never considered part of the Company’s ongoing operations. The Lending Joint Ventures, which were reported within the Financial segment, include all of the Company’s automotive loan origination and servicing products, as well as its LoanServTM mortgage and consumer loan servicing platform. The Company received gross sale proceeds of $419 million from the transactions. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of $232 million, with the related tax expense of $78 million recorded through the income tax provision, in the consolidated statement of income. The pre-tax gain includes $124 million related to the remeasurement of the Company’s 45% retained interests based upon the estimated enterprise value of the Lending Joint Ventures. Contingent consideration of up to $20 million under defined special distribution provisions within the transaction agreements is being accounted for by the Company as a gain contingency and will therefore be recognized in future periods to the extent the contingency is resolved and thereby realized. The Company’s remaining 45% ownership interests of $58 million at March 31, 2018 are accounted for as equity method investments and are reported within other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The Company will report its share of the Lending Joint Ventures’ net income as income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates, and the revenues and expenses of the Lending Joint Ventures after the sale transactions are not included in the Company’s consolidated statements of income. The Company’s consolidated financial statements for all periods prior to the sale transactions include the revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Lending Joint Ventures.15Table of ContentsPrior to the sale transactions described above, the Lending Joint Ventures entered into variable-rate term loan facilities for an aggregate amount of $350 million in senior unsecured debt and variable-rate revolving credit facilities for an aggregate amount of $35 million with a syndicate of banks, which transferred to the Lending Joint Ventures as part of the sale. The Company has guaranteed this debt of the Lending Joint Ventures and does not anticipate that the Lending Joint Ventures will fail to fulfill their debt obligations. These debt facilities mature in March 2023, and there have been no borrowings on the revolving credit facilities. The Company has recorded a $34 million liability as a reduction to the gain on sale transactions for the estimated fair value of its obligations to stand ready to perform over the term of the guarantees, which are reported primarily within other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. The Company reports its share of StoneRiver’s net income as income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate, with the related tax expense reported within the income tax provision, in the consolidated statements of income. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, StoneRiver recognized a gain on the sale of a business. The Company’s pre-tax share of the gain was $26 million, with related tax expense of $9 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, the Company received a cash dividend of $31 million from StoneRiver, which was funded from the sale transaction and recorded as a reduction in the Company’s investment in StoneRiver. The entire dividend represented a return on the Company’s investment and is reported in cash flows from operating activities.6. Share-Based CompensationThe Company recognized $19 million and $16 million of share-based compensation expense during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company’s annual grant of share-based awards generally occurs in the first quarter. Income TaxesIncome tax provision as a percentage of income before income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate was 24.9% and 31.7% in the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The lower rate in the first quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to the enactment of the Tax Act, which reduced the U.S federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent beginning in 2018, and is further described below. The rate in the first quarter of 2018 included $78 million of income tax expense associated with the $232 million gain on the sale of a 55% interest of the Company’s Lending Solutions business. The rate in the first quarter of 2017 included $9 million of income tax expense associated with the Company’s share of the gain on the sale of a business at StoneRiver.On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Company’s accounting for certain elements of the Tax Act continues to be evaluated; however, any associated impacts are not expected to be material.8. Fair Value MeasurementsThe Company applies fair value accounting for all assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in its consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis. Fair value represents the amount that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market and the market-based risk measurements or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.The fair values of cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, settlement assets and obligations, accounts payable, and client deposits approximate their respective carrying values due to the short period of time to maturity. The estimated fair value of total debt was $4.7 billion at March 31, 2018 and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2017. This estimated fair value has not changed since the acquisition date. These liabilities are both reported primarily in other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.17Table of Contents10. Amortization expense with respect to capitalized and purchased software recorded at March 31, 2018 is estimated to approximate $170 million in 2018.11. Changes in fair value are then recognized in the consolidated statements of income when the hedged item affects earnings, reported within the same line as the hedged item. The Company’s policy is to enter into derivatives with creditworthy institutions and not to enter into such derivatives for speculative purposes.The Company has entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge foreign currency exposure to the Indian Rupee. As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the notional amount of these derivatives was $155 million and $150 million, respectively, and the fair value totaling approximately $5 million and $8 million, respectively, is reported in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. Based on the amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss at March 31, 2018, the Company estimates that it will recognize gains of approximately $5 million in cost of processing and services during the next twelve months as foreign currency forward exchange contracts settle.13. Business Segment InformationThe Company’s operations are comprised of the Payments segment and the Financial segment. The Payments segment primarily provides electronic bill payment and presentment services, internet and mobile banking software and services, account-to-account transfers, person-to-person payment services, debit and credit card processing and services, payments infrastructure services, and other electronic payments software and services. The businesses in this segment also provide card and print personalization services, investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, and fraud and risk management products and services. The Financial segment provides depository institutions and leasing and finance companies with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Corporate and Other primarily consists of unallocated corporate expenses including share-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, intercompany eliminations and other activities that are not considered when management evaluates segment performance, such as gains on sales of businesses. Goodwill in the Financial segment was $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.20Table of ContentsITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSForward-Looking StatementsThis quarterly report contains “forward-looking statements” intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those that express a plan, belief, expectation, estimation, anticipation, intent, contingency, future development or similar expression, and can generally be identified as forward-looking because they include words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “could,” “should” or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe our future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report involve significant risks and uncertainties, and a number of factors, both foreseen and unforeseen, could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report.Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to our unaudited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes to help provide an understanding of our financial condition, the changes in our financial condition and our results of operations. This section contains background information on our company and the services and products that we provide, acquisitions and dispositions, our enterprise priorities, and the trends affecting our industry in order to provide context for management’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations.•Changes in critical accounting policies and estimates. This section contains a discussion of changes since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 in the accounting policies that we believe are important to our financial condition and results of operations and that require judgment and estimates on the part of management in their application.•Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying unaudited consolidated statements of income by comparing the results for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to the comparable period in 2017.•Liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our outstanding debt as of March 31, 2018.OverviewCompany BackgroundWe are a leading global provider of financial services technology. We provide account processing systems, electronic payments processing products and services, internet and mobile banking systems, and related services. We serve over 12,000 clients worldwide, including banks, savings banks, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, billers, retailers, merchants, and building societies. The majority of our revenue is generated from recurring account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally have terms of three to five years and high renewal rates. The Payments segment primarily provides electronic bill payment and presentment services, internet and mobile banking software and services, account-to-account transfers, person-to-person payment services, debit and credit card processing and services, payments infrastructure services, and other electronic payments software and services. Our businesses in this segment also provide card and print personalization services, investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, and fraud and risk management products 21Table of Contentsand services. The Financial segment provides banks, credit unions, and leasing and finance companies with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Corporate and Other primarily consists of unallocated corporate expenses including share-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, intercompany eliminations and other costs that are not considered when management evaluates segment performance.On February 21, 2018, our board of directors declared a two-for-one stock split of our common stock and a proportionate increase in the number of our authorized shares of common stock. The additional shares were distributed on March 19, 2018 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 5, 2018. Our common stock began trading at the split-adjusted price on March 20, 2018. All share and per share amounts are retroactively presented on a split-adjusted basis.Acquisitions and DispositionsWe frequently review our portfolio to ensure we have the right set of businesses to execute on our strategy. We received gross sale proceeds of $419 million from the transaction. The OBS and PCLender acquisitions are included in the Financial segment as their products are integrated across a number of our account processing solutions and will enable our bank and credit union clients to better serve their commercial and mortgage customers. The Dovetail and Monitise acquisitions are included in the Payments segment and will further enable us to help financial institutions around the world transform their payments infrastructure and to expand our digital leadership, respectively.Enterprise PrioritiesWe continue to implement a series of strategic initiatives to help accomplish our mission of providing integrated technology and services solutions that enable best-in-class results for our clients. These strategic initiatives include active portfolio management of our businesses, enhancing the overall value of our existing client relationships, improving operational effectiveness, being disciplined in our allocation of capital, and differentiating our products and services through innovation. The traditional financial industry and other market entrants regularly introduce and implement new payment, deposit, lending, investment and risk management products, and the distinctions among the products and services traditionally offered by different types of financial institutions continue to narrow as they seek to serve the same customers. At the same time, the evolving regulatory and cybersecurity landscape has continued to create a challenging operating environment for financial institutions. For example, legislation such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has generated, and may continue to generate, new regulations impacting the financial industry. These conditions, along with mild economic improvement, have created heightened interest in solutions that help financial institutions win and retain customers, generate incremental revenue, comply with regulations and enhance operating efficiency. Examples of these solutions include our electronic payments solutions and channels such as internet, mobile and tablet banking, sometimes referred to as “digital channels.”22Table of ContentsThis increased focus on digital channels by both financial institutions and their customers, as well as the growing volume and types of payment transactions in the marketplace, have increased the data and transaction processing needs of financial institutions. We expect that financial institutions will continue to invest significant capital and human resources to process transactions, manage information, maintain regulatory compliance and offer innovative new services to their customers in this rapidly evolving and competitive environment. We anticipate that we will benefit over the long term from the trend of financial institutions moving from in-house technology to outsourced solutions as they seek to remain current on technology changes in an evolving marketplace. We believe that economies of scale in developing and maintaining the infrastructure, technology, products, services and networks necessary to be competitive in such an environment are essential to justify these investments, and we anticipate that demand for products that facilitate customer interaction with financial institutions, including electronic transactions through digital channels, will continue to increase, which we expect to create revenue opportunities for us. Based on these market conditions, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring revenue-based products and services, gives us a solid foundation for growth. Furthermore, we believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients.In addition to the trends described above, the financial institutions marketplace has experienced change in composition as well. During the past 25 years, the number of financial institutions in the United States has declined at a relatively steady rate of approximately 3% per year, primarily as a result of voluntary mergers and acquisitions. Rather than reducing the overall market, these consolidations have transferred accounts among financial institutions. An acquisition benefits us when a newly combined institution is processed on our system, or elects to move to one of our systems, and negatively impacts us when a competing system is selected. Financial institution acquisitions also impact our financial results due to early contract termination fees in our multi-year client contracts, which are primarily generated when an existing client with a multi-year contract is acquired by another financial institution. These fees can vary from period to period based on the number and size of clients that are acquired and how early in the contract term the contract is terminated. Our revenue is diversified, and our focus on long-term client relationships and recurring, transaction-oriented products and services has reduced the impact that consolidation in the financial services industry has had on us. We have clients that span the entire range of financial institutions in terms of asset size and business model, and our 50 largest financial institution clients represent less than 25% of our annual revenue. In addition, we believe that our products and services can assist financial institutions with the regulatory and market challenges that they currently face by providing, among other things, new sources of revenue and opportunities to reduce their costs.Changes in Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesOur consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, we identified our critical accounting policies and estimates. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements, including for recently adopted accounting pronouncements, and base our estimates on historical experience and assumptions that we believe are reasonable in light of current circumstances. Actual amounts and results could differ materially from these estimates. Additional information about our revenue recognition policies and the related impact of the adoption is included in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements.There have been no other material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.23Table of ContentsResults of OperationsThe following table presents certain amounts included in our consolidated statements of income, the relative percentage that those amounts represent to revenue and the change in those amounts from year to year. This information should be read together with the unaudited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Revenue growth at our card services and biller solutions businesses contributed 3% and 1%, respectively, to the Payments segment growth in the first quarter of 2018 largely due to increased transaction volumes. In addition, revenue from businesses acquired in 2017 contributed 2% to Payments segment revenue growth in the first quarter of 2018.Revenue in our Financial segment decreased $4 million, or 1%, during the first quarter of 2018 compared to 2017. The Financial segment revenue decline was attributable to the Australian item processing business disposition in May 2017 and lower software license revenue in the quarter, which each negatively impacted Financial segment revenue growth by approximately 1.5% compared to the first quarter of 2017. Financial segment revenue decline was partially offset by other revenue growth contributions of 2% in our account processing businesses in the first quarter of 2018.Total ExpensesTotal expenses decreased $197 million in the first quarter of 2018, or 19%, compared to 2017. Total expenses as a percentage of total revenue decreased to 57.8% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 73.8% in the first quarter of 2017. Total expenses and total expenses as a percentage of total revenue were positively impacted by the gain on sale of business of $232 million in the first quarter of 2018.Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue decreased to 45.9% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 48.4% in the first quarter of 2017. Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue in 2018 was favorably impacted by 110 basis points from scalable revenue growth in our Payments segment and by 80 basis points from our account processing businesses driven by expense management.Cost of product as a percentage of product revenue increased to 94.6% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 84.3% in the first quarter of 2017. The increase in cost of product as a percentage of product revenue in 2018 was primarily attributable to a reduction in higher-margin software license revenue, which negatively impacted cost of product as a percentage of product revenue by approximately 400 basis points. In addition, the 2017 acquisitions and product mix in our output solutions business each negatively impacted cost of product as a percentage of product revenue by approximately 200 basis points in 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased to 21.2% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 19.9% in the first quarter of 2017. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue in 2018 was primarily due to increased costs associated with acquisitions.The gain on sale of business of $232 million in the first quarter of 2018 was driven by the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business.Operating Income and Operating MarginTotal operating income increased $243 million, or 67%, in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 2017. Total operating margin increased to 42.2% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 26.2% in 2017.Operating income in our Payments segment increased $12 million, or 5%, in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 2017. Operating margin decreased 50 basis points to 32.2% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 2017 due to increased expenses from the Dovetail and Monitise acquisitions and revenue mix in our output solutions business, which impacted Payments segment operating margin in 2018 by 170 basis points and 50 basis points, respectively. This was partially offset by 180 basis points of Payments segment operating margin improvement in 2018 from scalable revenue growth.Operating income in our Financial segment increased $6 million, or 3%, in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 2017. Operating margin increased 120 basis points to 32.8% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 2017. Financial segment operating margin improvement in 2018 was primarily attributable to expense management in our account processing businesses.Corporate and Other generated operating income of $135 million in the first quarter of 2018 compared to an operating loss of $90 million in the first quarter of 2017. The improvement in 2018 was primarily attributable to a $232 million gain on the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business, partially offset by an $8 million increase in acquisition and related integration costs compared to 2017.25Table of ContentsInterest ExpenseInterest expense increased $3 million, or 7%, in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to higher variable interest rates in 2018.Income Tax ProvisionIncome tax provision as a percentage of income before income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate was 24.9% and 31.7% in the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The rate reduction was primarily attributable to federal tax reform which reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent beginning in 2018. The rate in the first quarter of 2018 included $78 million of income tax expense associated with the $232 million gain on the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business. Net income per share-diluted was favorably impacted in the first quarter of 2018 by a gain of $0.37 per share on the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business. Net income per share-diluted was favorably impacted in the first quarter of 2017 by $0.04 per share due to our share of the net gain on the sale of a business at StoneRiver. We believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flow generated by our operations, along with our cash and cash equivalents of $382 million and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility of $1.2 billion at March 31, 2018. The following table summarizes our operating cash flow and capital expenditure amounts for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. This decrease was primarily due to unfavorable working capital changes and $31 million of lower cash dividends received from our StoneRiver joint venture, partially offset by improved operating results. The dividend received from StoneRiver in the first three months of 2017 represented a return on our investment and is reported in cash flows from operating activities. 26Table of ContentsOur current policy is to use our operating cash flow primarily to fund capital expenditures, share repurchases and acquisitions, and to repay debt rather than to pay dividends. Our capital expenditures were approximately 5% of our total revenue in both the first three months of 2018 and 2017.Share RepurchasesWe purchased $398 million and $389 million of our common stock during the first three months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of March 31, 2018, we had approximately 15.8 million shares remaining under our current share repurchase authorization. Shares repurchased are generally held for issuance in connection with our equity plans.Acquisitions and DispositionsDuring the first three months of 2018, we sold a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business, retaining 45% ownership interests in the joint ventures. We received gross sale proceeds of $419 million from the transaction. During the first three months of 2017, we acquired Online Banking Solutions, Inc. for a purchase price of $78 million, net of cash acquired, with earn-out provisions of up to $20 million. Interest on our senior notes is paid semi-annually. During the first three months of 2018, we were in compliance with all financial debt covenants.Variable Rate DebtWe maintain a $2.0 billion revolving credit agreement and a term loan with a syndicate of banks. Both the outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility and the term loan bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR or on a base rate, plus a specified margin based on our long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. The variable interest rate was 2.83% on the revolving credit facility borrowings and 3.13% on the term loan borrowings at March 31, 2018. There are no significant commitment fees and no compensating balance requirements on the revolving credit facility, which matures in April 2020. The outstanding principal balance on the term loan of $540 million is due at maturity in October 2018. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the term loan was classified in the consolidated balance sheets as long-term as we have the intent to refinance this debt on a long-term basis and the ability to do so under our revolving credit facility. This debt is comprised of variable-rate term loan facilities for an aggregate amount of $350 million in senior unsecured debt and variable-rate revolving credit facilities for an aggregate amount of $35 million with a syndicate of banks. These debt facilities mature in March 2023, and there have been no borrowings on the revolving credit facilities. We have recorded a $34 million liability for the estimated fair value of our obligations to stand ready to perform over the term of the guarantees, which are reported primarily within other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKThe quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk required by this item are incorporated by reference to Item 7A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and have not materially changed since December 31, 2017.ITEM 4. Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of March 31, 2018.Changes in internal control over financial reportingThere was no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSIn the normal course of business, we or our subsidiaries are named as defendants in lawsuits in which claims are asserted against us. In the opinion of management, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from such lawsuits are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.ITEM 2. This authorization does not expire.28Table of ContentsITEM 6. FISERV, INC.