See the definition of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1.Legal Proceedings28Item 1A.Risk Factors28Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds38Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities38Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures38Item 5.Other Information38Item 6.Exhibits39Signature40PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATIONITEM 1. In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-18 on a retrospective basis. This update clarifies guidance on the classification and presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. The amendment requires restricted cash be included in an entity's cash and cash-equivalent balances in the statement of cash flows and also requires an entity to disclose information about the nature of the restrictions. Further, a reconciliation between the statement of financial position and the statement of cash flows must be disclosed when the statement of financial position includes more than one line item for cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents. The Company's adoption of ASU 2016-18 did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. FASB ASU No. Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2017-01. The Company's adoption of ASU 2017-01 did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.FASB ASU No. As a result, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of approximately $1.0 million as of January 1, 2018. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. The Company expects the impact of the adoption of the new standard to be immaterial to net income on an ongoing basis. FASB ASU No. Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-16, which eliminates the exception of recognizing, at the time of transfer, current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory. This new standard has been applied on a modified retrospective transition basis with an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of approximately $5.6 million as of January 1, 2018. Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services. The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price. The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are in included in cost of goods sold. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.Contract BalancesThe timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled receivables and deferred revenue and advance payments from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis. Unbilled receivables are included within accounts receivable, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Contract liabilities include deferred revenue and advance payments from customers. Contract liabilities are classified as either current or long-term in the Consolidated Balance Sheets based on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize revenue. As of March 31, 2018 and at the date of the adoption of ASC 606, contract liability balances classified as long-term totaled $13.5 million and $13.8 million, respectively, and are included within pension and other long-term liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Approximately $28.4 million of revenue recognized during the three month period ended March 31, 2018 was included in the combined contract liability balances at the date of adoption.Remaining Performance ObligationsRemaining performance obligations related to ASC 606 represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period. While the remaining performance obligation disclosure is similar in concept to backlog, the definition of remaining performance obligations excludes contracts that provide the customer with the right to cancel or terminate for convenience with no substantial penalty, even if historical experience indicates the likelihood of cancellation or termination is remote. The Company has elected to exclude contracts with customers with an original term of one year or less from remaining performance obligations while these contracts are included within backlog. As of March 31, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $50.3 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 53 percent of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months, and the remainder recognized thereafter.Note 3.Stock-based CompensationStock Incentive PlansThe Company has a stock-based compensation program that provides equity incentives for employees, consultants and directors. The Company has discontinued issuing awards out of the 2002 Plan but previously-granted awards under the 2002 Plan remain outstanding.The Company has granted time-based options, time-based restricted stock unit awards, market-based restricted stock unit awards and performance-based restricted stock unit awards. Options generally expire ten years from the grant date. Time-based options and restricted stock unit awards generally vest over a three year period. Performance-based restricted stock unit awards granted during the year ended December 31, 2016 may be earned based upon the Company's return on invested capital over a three year period. Performance-based restricted stock unit awards granted during the year ended December 31, 2017 may be earned based upon the Company's operating margin performance over a three year period. The ESPP provides for six-month offerings commencing on May 1 and November 1 of each year with purchases on April 30 and October 31 of each year. Shares purchased under the ESPP must be held by employees for a period of at least 18 months after the date of purchase. The Company has categorized its cash equivalents as a Level 1 financial asset, measured at fair value based on quoted prices in active markets of identical assets. All cash equivalents are in instruments that are convertible to cash daily. The fair value of the Company’s foreign currency contracts as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, are disclosed in Note 6, "Derivative Financial Instruments," and are based on Level 2 inputs. The fair value of the Company’s senior unsecured notes as described in Note 14, "Long-Term Debt," is approximately $422.6 million and $427.5 million based upon Level 2 inputs at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had no other borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility described in Note 14. The Company does not have any other significant financial assets or liabilities that are measured at fair value.Note 6. Derivative Financial InstrumentsForeign Currency Exchange Rate RiskThe Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts not formally designated as hedges to manage the consolidated exchange rate risk associated with the remeasurement of non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Changes in fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in income at the end of each reporting period based on the difference between the contract rate and the spot rate. In general, these gains and losses are offset in the Consolidated Statements of Income by the reciprocal gains and losses from the underlying assets or liabilities which originally gave rise to the exposure. The net amount of the gains and losses related to derivative instruments recorded in other income, net for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were net losses of $4.7 million and $1.0 million, respectively. Property and EquipmentProperty and equipment are net of accumulated depreciation of $315.5 million and $306.2 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.Note 10.GoodwillIn August 2017, the Company announced a realignment of its business operations into three reportable operating segments effective as of January 1, 2018. This reorganization requires that the Company reassign its reported goodwill as of January 1, 2018 to its new reportable segments based on the relative fair value of the respective operating segments at that time. The Company is in the process of performing this valuation analysis which is expected to be finalized by June 30, 2018. Subsequent to the reallocation of goodwill, an impairment test of each new reporting unit is required to be performed, and a potential impairment could be deemed to exist as a result of this process. The Company will record any such potential impairment, if identified, during the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2018. See Note 18, "Operating Segments and Related Information" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the three new reportable operating segments. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2016 Notes were approximately $421.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses, which are being amortized over a period of five years. Interest on the 2016 Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on December 15 and June 15. The repurchases were under the February 2017 authorization by the Company's Board of Directors which authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock. This authorization expires in February 2019.On March 9, 2018, the Company paid a dividend of $0.16 per share on its outstanding common stock to the shareholders of record as of the close of business on February 23, 2018. Raytheon's complaint, as amended, asserted claims for tortious interference, patent infringement, trade secret misappropriation, unfair competition, breach of contract, and fraudulent concealment. The FLIR Parties filed an answer to the complaint on September 2, 2008, in which they denied all material allegations. On October 28, 2014, a four-week trial began with respect to Raytheon's remaining claims of misappropriations of trade secrets and claims related to 31 alleged trade secrets. On November 24, 2014, a jury in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas rejected Raytheon’s claims and determined that 27 of the alleged trade secrets were not in fact trade secrets and that neither of the FLIR Parties infringed any of the trade secrets claimed and awarded Raytheon no damages. On April 29, 2016, Raytheon filed a Notice of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit of the denial by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas of Raytheon’s Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law, or in the Alternative, Motion for New Trial. The United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit heard the matter on January 12, 2018 and a decision is expected later this year. The matter remains ongoing and is subject to appeal. On April 27, 2015, the Company submitted its initial report to DDTC regarding the details of the issues raised in the October 22, 2014, submission. DDTC subsequently notified the Company that it was considering administrative proceedings under Part 128 of ITAR and requested a tolling agreement, which the Company executed on June 16, 2015 and referenced certain Company disclosures in addition to the submissions made in conjunction with the October 24, 2014 initial notification. On June 6, 2016, the Company executed a subsequent tolling agreement extending the tolling period for matters to be potentially included in an administrative proceeding for an additional 18 months and at the request of DDTC on December 1, 2017, further extended the tolling agreement for an additional six months through May 9, 2018. On April 24, 2018, the Company entered into a Consent Agreement with the DDTC to resolve these issues. The Company expects recent and future investments in remedial compliance measures will be sufficient to cover the $15 million suspension amount.As part of the Consent Agreement DDTC acknowledged that the Company voluntarily disclosed certain alleged Arms Export Control Act and ITAR violations, which are resolved pursuant to the Consent Agreement, cooperated in, and instituted a number of compliance program improvements during the course of DDTC's review.In May 2017, the Company submitted an initial notification to DDTC regarding potential violations related to certain export classifications obtained through the commodity jurisdiction process and a final voluntary disclosure in August 2017. DDTC acknowledged the notification and at the request of DDTC, the Company executed a tolling agreement for this matter, suspending the statute of limitations through July 2018. This matter was not resolved pursuant to the Consent Agreement identified above and remains under review.In June 2017, the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security informed the Company of additional export licensing requirements that restrict the Company’s ability to sell 9hz thermal products without a license to customers in China not identified on a list maintained by the United States Department of Commerce. This action was precipitated by concerns of potential diversion of some of the Company's products to prohibited end users and to countries subject to economic and other sanctions implemented by the United States. The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the time it may take to resolve these matters or the amount or range of potential loss, penalty or other government action, if any, that may be incurred in connection with these matters. The Company notified customers who purchased the affected SkyWatch Towers of the potential concerns and, as a precautionary measure, also temporarily suspended production of all Level III and Level IV SkyWatch Towers pending the completion of its review and the implementation of any necessary remedial measures. During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, the Company identified the cause of these quality issues and began testing certain remedial solutions to repair the affected SkyWatch Towers. Testing of the remedial solution for certain of the product variations affected was also completed during the quarter ended June 30, 2017. Subsequent to the aforementioned identification and testing, customers who purchased the product configurations for which a remedial solution has been identified and tested were notified of their options to request modifications to their fielded units. While there still remains uncertainty related to estimating the costs associated with a potential remedy and number of units which may require such remedy, the Company currently estimates the range of potential loss to be between $6.3 million and $14 million. As no single amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount within the range, the Company has recorded a liability of $6.3 million as of March 31, 2018. Factors underlying this estimated range of loss may change from time to time, and actual results may vary significantly from this estimate.Other MattersThe Company is also subject to other legal and administrative proceedings, investigations, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business not specifically identified above. In these identified matters and others not specifically identified, the Company records a liability with respect to a matter when management believes it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the Company can reasonably estimate the amount of the loss. The Company believes it has recorded adequate provisions for any probable and estimable losses for matters in existence on the date hereof. The Company reviews these provisions to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other information and events pertaining to a particular matter. While the outcome of each of these matters is currently not determinable, the Company does not expect that the ultimate resolution of any such matter will individually have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In connection with the Company's initial analysis of the impact of the Tax Act, the Company recorded provisional net tax expense of $94.4 million for the period ended December 31, 2017. This amount consists of net expense of $66.5 million for the transition tax and net expense of $12.8 million for the remeasurement of the Company's net deferred tax assets using the reduced United States tax rate. In addition, the Company also recorded net tax expense of $15.1 million for state income and foreign taxes estimated to be due upon distribution of approximately $1.0 billion of previously undistributed foreign earnings no longer permanently reinvested as of December 31, 2017. These provisional amounts may be impacted by the need for further analysis and future clarification and guidance regarding available tax accounting methods and elections, earnings and profits computations, foreign tax credit calculations, and state tax conformity to federal tax changes. As of March 31, 2018, the Company has not completed the accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act described above and there have been no material changes to estimated amounts. The Company anticipates approximately $1.8 million of its net unrecognized tax benefits will be recognized within 12 months as the result of settlements or effective settlements with various tax authorities, the closure of certain audits and the lapse of the applicable statute of limitations. The Company classifies interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the income tax provision. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had $6.4 million of accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits that are recorded as current and non-current accrued income taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.In 2016, the Company recorded discrete tax charges totaling $39.6 million related to the January 11, 2016 announcement from the European Commission of a decision concluding that certain rules under Belgian tax legislation were deemed to be incompatible with European Union regulations on state aid. As a result of this decision, the European Commission directed the Belgian Government to recover past taxes from certain entities, reflective of disallowed state aid, which impacts one of the Company’s international subsidiaries. The Belgian Government announced they have appealed this decision and filed action for an annulment in the General Court of the European Union, and in July 2016 the Company filed a separate appeal with the General Court of the European Union. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740, “Income Taxes,” the Company recorded discrete tax expense of $39.6 million during 2016, related to this matter and on January 10, 2017, received tax assessments from the Belgium government for a similar amount, which the Company has classified as current taxes payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2018. The Company has filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and the result of this complaint, the appeal with the General Court of the European Union, new information received from the Belgian Government, or other future events may cause the income tax provision associated with the decision to be entirely or partially reversed. At March 31, 2018, the Company held the euro equivalent of $37.6 million in a restricted cash account. Offerings include airborne, land, maritime, and man-portable multi-spectrum imaging systems, radars, lasers, imaging components, integrated multi-sensor system platforms, CBRNE detectors, nano-class UAS solutions, and services related to these systems.Commercial Business UnitThe Commercial business unit develops and manufactures cameras, video recording systems, and video management systems for use in commercial and critical infrastructure, electronics and imaging instruments for the recreational and commercial maritime market, intelligent traffic monitoring and signal control systems, and hand-held and weapon-mounted thermal imaging systems for use in a variety of applications. Products include thermal and visible-spectrum security cameras, digital and networked video recorders, and related software and accessories, a full suite of networked marine electronic systems including multi-function helm displays, navigational instruments, autopilots, radars, sonar systems, thermal and visible imaging systems, and communications equipment for boats of all sizes, traffic cameras, sensors and associated traffic management software, and thermal scopes and handheld thermal cameras. Intersegment revenues are recorded at cost and are eliminated in consolidation. The Company and each of its segments employ consistent accounting policies.The following tables present revenue, operating income, and assets for the three segments. Operating income as reviewed by the CODM is revenue less cost of goods sold and operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, loss on sale of a business and restructuring and other charges. Net accounts receivable, inventories and demonstration assets for the operating segments are regularly reviewed by management and are reported below as segment assets. The allocation of the purchase price to identifiable intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Commercial business unit. The excess purchase price of approximately $6.8 million has been preliminarily reported in Other assets as of March 31, 2018. As a result of this combined sale, the Company recognized a pre-tax loss of $10.2 million in the first quarter of 2018. This group of assets was previously classified as held for sale during the fourth quarter of 2017, when the Company recorded an estimated pre-tax loss on net assets held for sale of $23.6 million. The total cash payment of this dividend will be approximately $22.0 million. On April 24, 2018, the Company entered into a Consent Agreement with the DDTC to resolve various alleged violations of the ITAR. For additional information, refer to Note 16, "Contingencies. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “sees,” “estimates” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements due to numerous factors including, but not limited to, those discussed in “Risk Factors” section in Part II, Item 1A of this Report, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part I, Item 2, and elsewhere in this Report as well as those discussed from time to time in the Company’s other Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports. In addition, such statements could be affected by general industry, economic, and market conditions. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document, and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report, or for changes made to this document by wire services or Internet service providers. If the Company updates or corrects one or more forward-looking statements, investors and others should not conclude that the Company will make additional updates or corrections with respect to other forward-looking statements.Consolidated Operating ResultsThe following discussion of operating results provides an overview of our operations by addressing key elements in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The “Segment Operating Results” section that follows describes the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated revenue and earnings from operations. Additionally, at the segment level we disclose backlog, which represents orders received for products or services for which a sales agreement is in place and delivery is expected within twelve months. Backlog is not an absolute indicator of future revenue because a portion of the orders in backlog could be canceled at the customer's discretion. While the backlog is subject to order cancellations, we have not historically experienced a significant number of order cancellations. In August 2017, we announced a realignment of our business which resulted in reducing our number of operating segments from six to three effective as of January 1, 2018. See Note 18, "Operating Segments and Related Information" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the three operating segments. The segment operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2017 below have been adjusted to conform to the new operating segment structure.Revenue. Consolidated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018, increased by 8.1 percent year over year, from $406.8 million in the first quarter of 2017 to $439.6 million in the first quarter of 2018. The timing of orders, scheduling of backlog, and fluctuations in demand in various regions of the world can give rise to quarter to quarter and year over year fluctuations in the mix of revenue. Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods. Excluding the divestiture of the Consumer and SMB Security business, we currently expect total annual revenue for 2018 to be higher than 2017 revenue, however, unexpected changes in economic conditions from key customer markets or other major unanticipated events may cause total revenue, and the mix of revenue between our segments, to vary from quarter to quarter during the year.International sales accounted for 48.7 percent and 45.5 percent of total revenue for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The proportion of our international revenue compared to total revenue will fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to normal variation in order activity across various regions as well as specific factors that may affect one region and not another. Overall, we anticipate that revenue from international sales will continue to comprise a significant percentage of total revenue.21Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $221.7 million, compared to cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2017 of $215.5 million. The year over year increase in cost of goods sold is primarily related to higher revenues in 2018.Gross profit. Gross profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, was $217.9 million compared to $191.3 million for the same quarter last year. Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, increased from 47.0 percent in the first quarter of 2017 to 49.6 percent in the first quarter of 2018. The increase in gross margin for the three month period was primarily due to favorable product mix.Research and development expenses. Research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2018 totaled $44.6 million, compared to $42.0 million in the first quarter of 2017. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue were 10.1 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 10.3 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2017. We have, and will continue to have, fluctuations in quarterly spending depending on product development needs and overall business spending priorities and believe that annual spending levels are most indicative of our commitment to research and development. Over the past five annual periods through December 31, 2017, our annual research and development expenses have varied between 8.5 percent and 9.9 percent of revenue, and we currently expect these expenses to remain within that range, on an annual basis, for the foreseeable future.Selling, general, and administrative expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $107.7 million and $90.3 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the first quarter of 2018 is primarily attributed to a $15.0 million accrual recorded in the period for the anticipated costs of a regulatory settlement described further in Note 16, "Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue were 24.5 percent and 22.2 percent for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Over the past five annual periods through December 31, 2017, our annual selling, general and administrative expenses have varied between 19.4 percent and 21.7 percent of revenue, and excluding the impact of the $15.0 million accrual described above, we currently expect these expenses to remain within that range, on an annual basis, for the foreseeable future.Loss on sale of business. During the first quarter of 2018, we recorded an additional pre-tax loss on the sale of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses of $10.2 million. See Note 19, "Business Acquisitions and Divestitures," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information.Interest expense. Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2018, was $4.1 million, compared to $4.5 million for the same period of 2017. Interest expense in 2018 was primarily associated with the $425 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes. Interest expense for the same period in 2017 was primarily associated with the $425 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes and amounts drawn under our credit facility. There were no drawings on our credit facility for the 2018 period. Income taxes. Our income tax provision of $15.4 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2018, represents an effective tax rate of 28.2 percent. Our income tax provision for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 was $13.0 million, which represented an effective tax rate of 23.4 percent. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 is higher than the United States Federal tax rate of 21 percent mainly due to state taxes, higher tax rates applied to income earned in foreign jurisdictions, accruals for non-deductible penalties, and other discrete items, offset by the effect of federal, foreign and state tax credits and excess tax benefits from stock compensation.In 2016, we recorded discrete tax charges totaling $39.6 million related to the January 11, 2016, announcement from the European Commission of a decision concluding that certain rules under Belgian tax legislation were deemed to be incompatible with European Union regulations on state aid. As a result of this decision, the European Commission directed the Belgian Government to recover past taxes from certain entities, reflective of disallowed state aid, which impacts one of our international subsidiaries. The Belgian Government announced they have appealed this decision and filed action for an annulment in the General Court of the European Union, and in July 2016 we filed a separate appeal with the General Court of the European Union. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740, “Income Taxes,” we recorded discrete tax expense of $39.6 million during 2016, related to this matter and on January 10, 2017, received tax assessments from the Belgium government for a similar amount, which we have classified as current taxes payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2018. We have filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and the result of this complaint, the appeal with the General Court of the European Union, new 22information received from the Belgian Government, or other future events may cause the income tax provision associated with the decision to be entirely or partially reversed. At March 31, 2018, we held the euro equivalent of $37.6 million in a restricted cash account. Those amounts, or portions thereof, could become unrestricted depending on the outcome of this matter.Segment Operating ResultsThe Company is currently organized into three reportable segments. See Note 18, “Operating Segments and Related Information,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of each operating segment, including the types of products and services from which each operating segment derives its revenues. With this re-alignment, we intend to reduce complexity, realize greater operating synergies, and enhance management focus. The increase in revenue for the three-month period was predominately attributable to strength in the Instruments handheld market, UAS, and sales to OEMs. The increase in earnings from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same periods of 2017, was primarily due to the higher revenue. The increase in revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period of 2017 was driven by increase in sales in airborne gimbals and higher HRC demand in the Middle East. The increase in earnings from operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same periods in 2017, was primarily due to higher revenues and favorable product mix. The decrease in backlog is due to timing of major bookings and shipments. The decrease in revenue for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018 was predominately due to the divestitures of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses during the period ended March 31, 2018, partially offset by higher marine electronics sales. The increase in earnings from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same periods of 2017, was due to favorable product mix, led by marine electronics. Liquidity and Capital ResourcesAt March 31, 2018, we had a total of $452.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, $137.4 million of which resided in the United States and $314.7 million at our foreign subsidiaries, compared to cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2017, of $519.1 million, of which $228.9 million resided in the United States and $290.2 million at our foreign subsidiaries. At March 31, 2018, the restricted cash balance was $37.6 million and we had no amounts designated as restricted cash at December 31, 2017. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash during the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to share repurchases of $95.0 million, dividend payments of $22.2 million, a business acquisition of $7.1 million, minority interest investments of $9.5 million and capital expenditures of $7.1 million, partially offset by cash provided from operations of $43.2 million, cash received from the sale of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses of $25.9 million and proceeds of $3.5 million from shares issued under our stock compensation plans. and other Lenders. The Credit Agreement provides for a $200 million, five-year revolving line of credit. On April 5, 2013, the Credit Agreement was amended to extend the maturity of the revolving credit facility from April 8, 2016 to April 5, 2018, in addition to incorporating a $150 million term loan facility maturing April 5, 2019. On May 31, 2016, the Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the borrowing capacity to $500 million and to extend the maturity of the revolving credit facility from April 5, 2018 to May 31, 2021. The amendment also incorporated a revised schedule of fees and interest rate spreads. We have the right, subject to certain conditions, including approval of additional commitments by qualified lenders, to increase the revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement by an additional $200 million until May 31, 2021. The Credit Agreement allows us and certain designated subsidiaries to borrow in United States dollars, European euros, Swedish kronor, British pound sterling, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars, Australian dollars, and other agreed upon currencies. Interest rates under the Credit Agreement are determined based on the type of borrowing. Interest associated with borrowings can be based on either the prime lending rate of Bank of America, N.A. The borrowings have an applicable margin that ranges from 0.125 percent to 2.125 percent depending on the applicable base rate and our consolidated total leverage ratio. Including the respective spreads, the one-month Eurocurrency-based borrowing rate was 3.252 percent per 24annum and the prime lending-based borrowing rate was 5.125 percent per annum at March 31, 2018. The Credit Agreement requires us to pay a commitment fee on the amount of unused revolving commitments at a rate, based on our total leverage ratio, which ranges from 0.150 percent to 0.300 percent of unused revolving commitments. At March 31, 2018, the commitment fee on the amount of unused revolving credit was 0.175 percent per annum. The Credit Agreement contains two financial covenants that require the maintenance of a total leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio, with which the Company was in compliance at March 31, 2018. The credit facilities available under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. The net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes were approximately $421.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses, which are being amortized over a period of five years. Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on December 15 and June 15. The proceeds from the Notes were used to repay our 3.75 percent senior unsecured notes that were due September 1, 2016, and are being used for general corporate purposes, which include working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions, and repurchases of our common stock.On February 8, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock. This authorization will expire on February 8, 2019. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase program at a notional amount of $50.0 million under which we received 0.8 million shares in March 2018 and will be settled on June 4, 2018. The repurchases were under the February 2017 authorization. As of March 31, 2018, a total of 1.7 million shares have been repurchased under the February 8, 2017 authorization. In accordance with the Tax Act, we have accrued $66.5 million of United States taxes payable on all previously undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, estimated to be approximately $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2017. We have also recorded deferred tax liabilities of $15.1 million for state and foreign taxes estimated to be due upon distribution of all accumulated earnings by our foreign subsidiaries. We have not provided United States, state or foreign income taxes for earnings generated after January 1, 2018 by certain subsidiaries outside the United States as we currently intend to reinvest the earnings in operations and other activities outside of the United States indefinitely. Should we subsequently elect to repatriate such foreign earnings, we would need to accrue and pay state and foreign income taxes, thereby reducing the amount of our cash. United States taxes would generally not be payable due to changes made by the Tax Act. We believe that our existing cash combined with the cash we anticipate generating from operating activities, and our available credit facilities and financing available from other sources will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the next twelve months. We do not have any significant commitments nor are we aware of any significant events or conditions that are likely to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources.Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsAs of March 31, 2018, we leased our non-owned facilities under operating lease agreements. We also leased certain operating machinery and equipment and office equipment under operating lease agreements. The amendments in this update require the identification of arrangements that should be accounted for as leases by lessees. In general, for lease arrangements exceeding a twelve month term, these arrangements must now be recognized as assets and liabilities on the balance sheet of the lessee. ASU 2016-02 requires the use of the modified retrospective method, which will require adjustment to all comparative periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. ASU 2016-02 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted, and the Company currently intends to adopt ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019. The Company is assessing the impact ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and expects that the primary impact upon adoption will be the recognition, on a discounted basis, of its minimum commitments under noncancelable operating leases on its consolidated balance sheets resulting in the recording of right of use assets and lease obligations. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. The amendments in this update simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test. The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual, or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An impairment charge should be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. An entity still has the option to perform the qualitative assessment for a reporting unit to determine if the quantitative impairment test is necessary. The amendment should be applied on a prospective basis. ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The amendments in ASU 2017-04 are to be applied on a prospective basis and are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating this guidance to determine the impact it may have on its consolidated financial statements.Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesPreparation of the financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. Management believes the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the consolidated financial statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company has updated its revenue recognition policy in connection with the adoption of ASC 606 as further described in Note 2, "Revenue" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Readers should also refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis and the critical accounting policies and its use of estimates as reported in Note 1, "Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies" and Note 13, "Contingencies" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. Actual results in these areas could differ materially from management's estimates. There have been no significant changes in the Company's assumptions regarding critical accounting estimates during the first three months of 2018.Contractual ObligationsThere were no material changes to the Company's contractual obligations outside the ordinary course of its business during the quarter ended March 31, 2018.26ContingenciesSee Note 16, "Contingencies," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of an ongoing lawsuit filed by Raytheon Company against FLIR Systems, Inc. and its subsidiary, FLIR Commercial Systems, Inc., the disclosure of certain matters by the Company to the United States Department of State Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance, communications to the Company from the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security, and the Company's current estimates of the range of potential loss associated with quality concerns identified by the Company regarding certain SkyWatch Surveillance Towers.ITEM 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKAs of March 31, 2018, the Company has not experienced any changes in market risk exposure that would materially affect the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk presented in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.ITEM 4.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESEvaluation of Disclosure Controls and ProceduresAs of March 31, 2018, the Company completed an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial ReportingBeginning January 1, 2018, the Company implemented ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Although the new revenue standard did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements, the Company developed new policies and trainings, and enhanced internal controls to ensure an adequate evaluation of customer contracts and a proper assessment of the impact of the new accounting standards related to revenue recognition. These enhancements to the internal controls are not considered significant.There have been no other changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.27PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1.LEGAL PROCEEDINGSThe Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of its business. See Note 16, “Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company’s legal proceedings.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. If we are unable to adequately respond to these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our BusinessWe depend on the United States government for a material portion of our business and changes in government spending could adversely affect our businessWe derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies. A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 26 percent, 25 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies. The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control. Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.As a United States government supplier, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulationsGovernment contractors must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements and are subject to routine and non-routine audits and investigations by United States government agencies. In addition, violations of these regulations or other unrelated laws and statutes can lead to debarment and other penalties. An adverse action by the United States government could also result in lost sales to non-governmental customers who might disqualify us as a result of such adverse action. The impairment or loss of our government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business. Operating margins may be negatively impacted by reduction in sales or by a change in the mix of products soldOur expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term. Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance the long-term competitiveness of the Company. We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales. Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. Our fixed costs, including facilities and information technology costs, compliance and public company costs, and depreciation and amortization related to previous acquisitions and capital expenditures, are significant and are difficult to reduce in the short term. 28Our operating margins vary by product and substantial changes in the mix of products sold could also have a negative impact on our operating margins.We may experience impairment in the value of our tangible and intangible assetsOur industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets. Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets. Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired. We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events. To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future. In addition, certain of our tangible assets such as inventory and machinery and equipment may experience impairment in their value as a result of such events as the introduction of new products, changes in technology or changes in customer demand patterns. We depreciate our machinery and equipment at levels we believe are adequate; however, there can be no assurance that there will not be a future impairment that may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative and regulatory proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to our results of operations and may limit our ability to engage in our business activities. In recognition of these considerations, we have and may in the future enter into material settlements to avoid ongoing costs and efforts in defending or pursuing a matter. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits. We record accruals for liabilities where we believe a loss to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, our actual costs may differ materially from these estimates.We face risks from international sales and business activitiesWe market and sell our products worldwide and international sales have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, international sales accounted for 47 percent, 46 percent and 47 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. We also manufacture certain products and subassemblies in Europe and we have several contract manufacturing agreements with third parties in Europe and in Asia. Certain of these products, particularly our thermal and infrared products, are subject to substantial government regulation and licensing and end use restrictions throughout the world. No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business both in the United States and in international jurisdictions. These regulations include import and export laws, anti-competition laws, anti-corruption laws, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, tax laws, and accounting, internal control and disclosure requirements. The SEC Order settled charges under the FCPA with respect to incidents of improper travel and gifts involving FLIR’s Middle East operation. Pursuant to the SEC Order, the Company is obligated to “cease and desist” from committing any future violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations. In certain foreign jurisdictions, there is a higher risk of fraud or corruption and greater difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls and compliance programs. Further, although we have implemented and continue to implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations. On April 27, 2015, the Company submitted its initial report to DDTC regarding the details of the issues raised in the October 22, 2014, submission. DDTC subsequently notified the Company that it was considering administrative proceedings under Part 128 of ITAR and requested a tolling agreement, which the Company executed on June 16, 2015 and referenced certain Company disclosures in addition to the submissions made in conjunction with the October 24, 2014 initial notification. On June 6, 2016, the Company executed a subsequent tolling agreement extending the tolling period for matters to be potentially included in an administrative proceeding for an additional 18 months and at the request of DDTC on December 1, 2017, further extended the tolling agreement for an additional six months through May 9, 2018. On April 24, 2018, the Company entered into a Consent Agreement with the DDTC to resolve issues related to certain export compliance matters under the ITAR. The Company expects recent and future investments in remedial compliance measures will be sufficient to cover the $15 million suspension amount. Our failure to comply with these regulations, including the requirements of the Consent Agreement could result in penalties, loss, or suspension of contracts or other consequences which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.In addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and may provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.30We face risks from currency fluctuationsHistorically, currency fluctuations have affected our operating results. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales or costs incurred are denominated have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results. We seek to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations by denominating, where possible, our international sales in United States dollars, by balancing expenses and revenues in various currencies and by undertaking limited hedging of forecasted currency exposures. Recently, the United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR. This transition has increased the licensing requirements and restrictions on some products and reduced the requirements and restrictions on others. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses from the United States Department of State or Department of Commerce required to conduct our business as presently or historically conducted. Some of these factors have affected the thermal imaging and infrared technology industry overall while others have impacted the Company directly. Subsequent engagement with the DDTC as part of the Company’s 2014 submission, the Consent Agreement and related submissions and other communications concerning the Company’s licensing posture overall, highlight DDTC’s focus on the manner in which the Company handles exports of its products, technical data and services subject to the ITAR. In addition, concerns with respect to potential diversion of certain of the Company's products to prohibited end users and countries subject to economic and other sanctions implemented by the United States government has caused the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security to restrict recently the Company’s ability to sell 9hz thermal products without a license to customers in China not identified on a list maintained by the United States Department of Commerce.Although we have taken actions and continue to take additional actions necessary to implement policies and procedures to promote an improved compliance culture and programs, there is no guarantee that our actions will be effective or that government agencies will not view our actions and programs with heightened scrutiny, including as a result of events outside the Company’s control. As a result, we may receive more restrictive provisos or limitations on new license requests, wholesale denials of our license requests, suspensions or terminations of our existing licenses, or delays in receiving new licenses resulting from requests for follow-up information, due diligence requests or additional limitations on our sale to third parties. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining necessary licenses required to facilitate our international business. Failures to obtain or delays in obtaining licenses may prevent or limit our ability to market, sell, export, or transfer our products outside the United States and has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. General economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial conditionOur operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of capital investment and consumer spending. Continuation of the conditions that led to reduced spending and potential further reductions in spending globally by either consumers or government agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our primary markets are volatile and unpredictableOur business depends on the demand for our products and solutions in a variety of commercial, industrial and government markets. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors, as well as the potential for increased competition from new market entrants, require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our products may suffer from defects or errors leading to substantial product liability, damage or warranty claimsWe include complex system designs and components in our products that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions. If any of our products are defective, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses including expenses arising from product liability and warranty claims. It also could disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we expand our presence into new markets, we may face increased exposure to product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance but cannot be certain that it will be sufficient or will continue to be available on acceptable terms.Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenues or translate into profitsMany contracts are subject to cancellation or suspension on short notice at the discretion of the customer, and the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contract. We have historically experienced variances in the components of backlog related to delivery delays or cancellations resulting from customer-specific circumstances, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control, and we may experience more 32delays or cancellations in the future. Accordingly, there is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized. If our backlog fails to materialize, we could experience a reduction in revenues and a decline in profitability, which could result in a deterioration of our financial position and liquidity.Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our Technology and Intellectual PropertyOur inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and avoid infringing the rights of others could harm our competitive position and our businessOur ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing the rights of others. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Many of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect. Although we currently hold worldwide patents covering certain aspects of our technologies and products, and we are actively pursuing additional patents, we cannot be certain that we will obtain additional patents or trademarks on our technology, products and trade names. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our patents or trademarks will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors or that measures taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will adequately deter their misappropriation or disclosure. Any failure by us to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, because intellectual property does not necessarily prevent our competitors from entering the markets we serve, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive advantage or that our competitors will not develop capabilities equal or superior to ours.Litigation over patents and other intellectual property is common in our industry. We have been the subject of patent and other intellectual property litigation in the past and cannot be sure that we will not be subject to such litigation in the future. Similarly, there exists the possibility we will assert claims in litigation to protect our intellectual property. Lawsuits defending or prosecuting intellectual property claims and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort of our personnel. An adverse determination in a patent suit or in any other proceeding in which we are a party could subject us to significant liabilities, result in the loss of intellectual property rights we claim or impact our competitive position. Additionally, an adverse determination could require us to seek licenses from third parties. If such licenses are not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to the rapid technological change in the markets in which we compete, our ability to introduce new or enhanced products and enter into new marketsThe markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological developments and frequent new product introductions, enhancements and modifications. Our ability to develop new products and technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements, reduce costs and otherwise retain or enhance our competitive position in existing and new markets will be an important factor in our future results from operations. We will continue to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to improve our manufacturing capability, reduce costs, and develop and introduce new products and enhancements. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot be certain that our new products and technologies will be successful or that customers will accept any of our new products.Our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats and other security threats and technology disruptionsWe face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems. We are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining infrastructure and physical security and information confidentiality. Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. We are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, for which we face similar security threats as for our own. In particular, cybersecurity threats-which include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, spyware and malware, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches-are persistent and evolve quickly. Such threats have increased in frequency, scope and potential impact 33in recent years. Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions. These technologies, as well as our products, are subject to failure and the user’s inability to have such technologies properly supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies and may contain open source and third party software which may unbeknownst to us contain defects or viruses that pose unintended risks to our customers. These risks if not effectively mitigated or controlled could materially harm our business or reputation. While we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures and controls, there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential information or corruption of data.We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. We use encryption and authentication technologies designed to secure the transmission and storage of data and prevent access to our data or accounts. These security measures are subject to third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities. For example, third parties may attempt to induce by fraud employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. These security systems cannot provide absolute security. To the extent we were to experience a breach of our systems and were unable to protect sensitive data, such a breach could materially damage business partner and customer relationships, and curtail or otherwise impact the use of our information technology systems. Moreover, if a security breach of our information technology system affects our computer systems or results in the release of personally identifiable or other sensitive information of customers, business partners, employees and other third parties, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation and potential liability.Although we have in the past and continue to be subject to cybersecurity threats and other security threats and technology disruptions, to date none has had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Nonetheless, in the future, these types of events could disrupt our operations and customer and other third party information technology systems. They also could require significant management attention and resources, negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public and challenge our eligibility for future work on sensitive or classified systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our Corporate Structure and OrganizationOur future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key senior management and qualified technical, sales and other personnelOur future success depends in part on the efforts and continued services of our key executives and our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key executives, technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future. We cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.We must successfully manage a complex global organizationAs we have grown, the size and scope of our worldwide operations have also increased substantially. We currently design, manufacture and market numerous product lines in locations worldwide. Significant management time and effort is required to manage effectively the increased complexity of the business and our failure to successfully do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to continue to manufacture our products at one or more of our facilities as a result of, for example, a prolonged power outage, earthquake, fire or other natural disaster, or labor or political unrest, could prevent us from supplying products to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may be unable to integrate successfully recent or future acquisitions into our operations, thereby disrupting our business and harming our financial condition and results of operationsWe have made twelve acquisitions of various sizes in the past five years. The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies can be difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks. For example, we could lose key personnel from 34companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, fail to establish satisfactory internal controls, or incur unanticipated liabilities. Any of these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and decrease our revenue.We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and it is likely that we will make additional acquisitions in the future. Such acquisitions may vary in size and complexity. Any future acquisitions are subject to the risks described above. Furthermore, we might assume or incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions. Additional debt may negatively impact our results and increase our financial risk, and the issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute our then existing shareholders’ ownership. Our inability to meet our debt service obligations or comply with the required covenants could result in a default under the credit facility or indenture. In the event of any such default, under the credit facility, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees under the facility to be due and immediately payable. In the event of any such default under our indenture, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes could declare the principal amount of all of the Notes to be due and payable immediately.We may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, if at all, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ongoing results of operations.Our ability to refinance indebtedness, including the Notes, will depend in part on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. In addition, prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing could increase our interest expense. A refinancing of our indebtedness, including the Notes, could also require us to comply with more onerous covenants and further restrict our business operations. Our inability to refinance our indebtedness or to do so upon favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and make us vulnerable to adverse industry and general economic conditions.We are effectively self-insured against many potential liabilitiesAlthough we maintain insurance policies with respect to a broad range of risks, including automobile liability, general liability, workers’ compensation and employee group health, these policies do not cover all possible claims and certain of the policies are subject to large deductibles. Accordingly, we are effectively self-insured for a substantial number of actual and potential claims. In addition, if any of our insurance carriers defaulted on its obligations to provide insurance coverage by reason of its insolvency or for other reasons, our exposure to claims would increase and our profits would be adversely affected. Our estimates for unpaid claims and expenses are based on known facts, historical trends and industry averages, utilizing the assistance of actuarial services. The determination of such estimated liabilities and their appropriateness are reviewed and updated at least quarterly. However, these liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to many relevant factors, the effects of which are often unknown, including the severity of an injury or damage, the determination of liability in proportion to other parties, the timeliness of reported claims, the effectiveness of our risk management and safety programs and the terms and conditions of our insurance policies. Our accruals are based upon known facts, historical trends and our reasonable estimate of future expenses, and we believe such accruals are adequate. However, unknown or changing trends, risks or circumstances, such as increases in claims, a weakening economy, increases in medical costs, changes in case law or legislation or changes in the nature of the work we perform, could render our current estimates and accruals inadequate. In such case, adjustments to our balance sheet may be required and these increased liabilities would be recorded in the period that the experience becomes known. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the enforcement environment, and changes in tax laws or their interpretations, in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. For example, in January 2016, the European Commission announced a decision concluding that certain rules under Belgian tax legislation are deemed to be incompatible with European Union regulations on state aid. As a result of this decision, the European Commission has directed the Belgian Government to recover past taxes from certain entities, reflective of disallowed state aid, which impacts one of the Company’s international subsidiaries. The Belgian Government announced they have appealed this decision and filed action for an annulment in the General Count of the European Union, and in July 2016 the Company filed a separate appeal with the General Court of the European Union. The Company recorded discrete tax expense of $39.6 million during 2016 related to this matter and on January 10, 2017, received tax assessments from the Belgium government for a similar amount. The Company has filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and the result of this complaint, the appeal with the General Court of the European Union, new information received from the Belgian Government, or other future events may cause the income tax provision associated with the decision to be entirely or partially reversed. At March 31, 2018, we held the euro equivalent of $37.6 million in a restricted account. Those amounts, or portions thereof, could become unrestricted based on a similar fact pattern. The long-term impact of the Tax Act on the general economy cannot be reliably predicted at this time and will require rule-making and interpretation in a number of areas.The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously required by U.S. tax law. As such, the application of certain accounting guidance is currently evolving. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for certain provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements. As additional interpretative guidance is issued by the applicable authorities, we will 36continue our analysis on the application of the Tax Act and will revise our current estimates in future periods. The revisions to our current estimates could materially affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial position.State of Oregon law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would benefit our shareholdersOther companies may seek to acquire or merge with us. An acquisition or merger of our Company could result in benefits to our shareholders, including an increase in the value of our common stock. Under the ASR, we received the initial shares of 813,670 on March 5, 2018 which resulted in an immediate reduction of the shares used to calculate our weighted-average common shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share. The ASR will be settled no later than on June 4, 2018. As of March 31, 2018, no additional shares have been received under the ASR. On February 8, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock. This authorization will expire on February 8, 2019. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 0.9 million shares of the Company's common stock under the February 2017 repurchase authorization by the Company's Board of Directors. ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIESNone.ITEM 4. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.