See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. All Rights Reserved. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been omitted or condensed. All such adjustments are of a normal recurring nature. The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results which may be expected for any other interim period or for the full year. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under ASC Topic 605 “Revenue Recognition”. Because the impact of adopting the standard on Corning’s financial statements was immaterial, we have not made an adjustment to opening retained earnings. Our preliminary analysis indicates that the impact of adoption will not have a material impact on Corning’s financial statements. The impact of adopting the standard on Corning’s financial statements was not material. The service cost component of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost is presented with other current compensation costs in operating income. Corning has applied the practical expedient which permits it to use the amounts disclosed in its pension and other postretirement benefit plan note for the prior comparative periods as the estimation basis for applying the retrospective presentation requirements. The impact of adopting the standard on Corning’s financial statements was not material. These reclassifications had no impact on our results of operations, financial position, or changes in shareholders’ equity. ASU 2016-02 will continue to classify leases as either financing or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of income. This standard will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. ASU 2016-02 is required to be applied with a modified retrospective approach with various optional practical expedients. We are currently assessing the potential impact of adopting this standard on our financial statements and related disclosures. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. ASU 2018-02 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods. We are currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2018-02 on our financial statements. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under ASC Topic 605 “Revenue Recognition”. Accordingly, we have not made any adjustment to opening retained earnings. Revenue is recognized when all performance obligations under the terms of a contract with our customer are satisfied, and control of the product has been transferred to the customer. If customer acceptance clauses are present and it cannot be objectively determined that control has been transferred, revenue is only recorded when customer acceptance is received and all performance obligations have been satisfied. Sales tax, value-added tax, and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. Incidental contract costs that are not material in the context of the delivery of goods and services are recognized as expense. Where we have offered product warranties, we also establish liabilities for estimated warranty costs based upon historical experience and specific warranty provisions. Warranty liabilities are adjusted when experience indicates the expected outcome will differ from initial estimates of the liability. Product warranty liabilities are not material at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The performance obligations under these contracts generally require services to be performed over time, resulting in either a straight-line amortization method or an input method using incurred and forecasted expense to predict revenue recognition patterns which follows satisfaction of the performance obligation. Corning’s other revenue is inconsequential to our results. All Rights Reserved. Within each product category, contract terms, conditions and economic factors affecting the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty around revenue recognition and cash flows are substantially similar. The commercial markets and selling channels are also similar. Except for an inconsequential amount of Telecommunications products, our product category revenues are recognized at point in time when control transfers to the customer. Prior year amounts are presented under the ASC 605 basis of revenue recognition. The majority of Corning’s cost of fulfillment as a manufacturer of products is classified as inventory, fixed assets and intangible assets, which are accounted for under the respective guidance for those asset types. Other costs of contract fulfillment are immaterial due to the nature of our products and their respective manufacturing processes. Deferred revenue and other advanced payments are not significant to our operations and are classified as part of other current liabilities in our financial statements. Customer deposits are predominately related to Display products and are classified as part of other current liabilities and other long- term liabilities as appropriate, and are disclosed below. These represent non-refundable cash deposits for customers to secure rights to an amount of glass produced by Corning under long-term supply agreements. The duration of these long-term supply agreements ranges up to ten years. As glass is shipped to customers, Corning will recognize revenue and issue credit memoranda to reduce the amount of the customer deposit liability, which are applied against customer receivables resulting from the sale of glass. In 2018 and 2017, no credit memoranda were issued. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. At December 31, 2016, the Company’s liability under the Plan was $290 million, which is required to be paid through a series of fixed payments beginning in the second quarter of 2017. Payments of $35 million and $70 million were made in June 2018 and June 2017, respectively. At September 30, 2018, the total amount of payments due in years 2019 through 2022 is $185 million, of which $50 million is due in the second quarter of 2019 and is classified as a current liability. The remaining $135 million is classified as a non-current liability. The stay was lifted on August 25, 2016. Corning previously established a $150 million reserve for these non-PCC asbestos claims. The estimated reserve represents the undiscounted projection of claims and related legal fees over the next 20 years. The amount may need to be adjusted in future periods as more data becomes available; however, we cannot estimate any lesser or greater liability at this time. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the amount of the reserve for these non-PCC asbestos claims was $147 million. Corning has resolved these issues with a majority of its relevant insurers, and is vigorously contesting these cases with the remaining relevant insurers. Management is unable to predict the outcome of the litigation with these remaining insurers. On May 31, 2016, Corning and Dow realigned their ownership interests in Dow Corning. Following the realignment, Corning no longer owns any interest in Dow Corning. The Plan also includes releases for Corning and Dow as shareholders in exchange for contributions to the Plan. Inclusive of insurance, Dow Corning has paid approximately $1.8 billion to the Settlement Trust. As of May 31, 2016, Dow Corning had recorded a reserve for breast implant litigation of $290 million. In the event Dow Corning’s total liability for these claims exceeds such amount, Corning may be required to indemnify Dow Corning for up to 50% of the excess liability. At September 30, 2018, Dow Corning had recorded a reserve for breast implant litigation of $263 million. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. As of May 31, 2016, Dow Corning had recorded a reserve for these claims of $107 million. In the event Dow Corning’s liability for these claims exceeds such amount, Corning may be required to indemnify Dow Corning for up to 50% of the excess liability, subject to certain conditions and limits. As of September 30, 2018, Dow Corning had recorded a reserve for these claims of $81 million. In the opinion of management, the likelihood that the ultimate disposition of these matters will have a material adverse effect on Corning’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations, is remote. Other than certain asbestos related claims, there are no other material loss contingencies related to litigation. Under the Superfund Act, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a hazardous waste site, identified by the Agency, are jointly and severally liable for the cost of cleanup unless the Agency agrees otherwise. It is Corning’s policy to accrue for its estimated liability related to Superfund sites and other environmental liabilities related to property owned by Corning based on expert analysis and continual monitoring by both internal and external consultants. Based upon the information developed to date, management believes that the accrued reserve is a reasonable estimate of the Company’s liability and that the risk of an additional loss in an amount materially higher than that accrued is remote. At September 30, 2018, the amount of equity subject to such restrictions for consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies was not significant. While this amount is legally restricted, it does not result in operational difficulties since we have generally permitted subsidiaries to retain a majority of equity to support their growth programs. 4. The Company measures the fair value of its long-term debt using Level 2 inputs based primarily on current market yields for its existing debt traded in the secondary market. The Revolving Credit Agreement provides a $1.5 billion unsecured multi-currency line of credit and expires August 15, 2023. At September 30, 2018, there were no outstanding amounts under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The net proceeds received in U.S. dollars, after deducting offering expenses, were $596 million. Payments of principle and interest on the Notes will be in Japanese yen, or should yen be unavailable due to circumstances beyond Corning’s control, a U.S. dollar equivalent. All Rights Reserved. Cash proceeds from the offerings and payments for debt issuance costs are disclosed as financing activities, and cash payments to bondholders for interest will be disclosed as operating activities, in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We are applying the guidance in SAB 118 when accounting for the enactment-date effects of the Act. As of September 30, 2018, we have not completed our accounting for all of the tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act. We have made a reasonable estimate of certain effects of the 2017 Tax Act. However, in other cases, we have not been able to make a reasonable estimate and continue to account for those items based on our existing accounting under ASC 740, Income Taxes, and the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to enactment. In all cases, we will continue to make and refine our calculations as additional analysis is completed. Our estimates may also be affected as we gain a more thorough understanding of the 2017 Tax Act, including recently issued and anticipated proposed guidance, between now and December 31, 2018. These changes could be material to income tax expense. We recorded a provisional amount of $347 million at that time. At December 31, 2017, we recorded a one-time Toll Charge based on our unrepatriated earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously deferred. This charge resulted in a provisional tax expense amount of $1.1 billion. At September 30, 2018, we have reduced our estimate of the one-time Toll Charge recorded in 2017 by $48 million in conjunction with filing our Federal income tax return. We will continue to analyze and refine our calculations related to the measurement of these balances. All Rights Reserved. While Corning is not changing its assertion at this time, the Company distributed approximately $2.2 billion during 2018 from its foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. parent of those subsidiaries. There are no incremental taxes beyond the Toll Charge recorded in 2017 due with respect to this distribution of cash. Corning’s accounting for the impact of the GILTI provisions of the 2017 Tax Act is incomplete and, as a result, it has not yet elected a policy to account for the GILTI provisions. This preliminary agreement resulted in $172 million of additional tax expense in the first quarter of 2018, of which $12 million relates to interest expense, net of tax benefit. Corning will use tax attributes to cover most of the tax expense. We expect this audit to take up to 2 years to complete. The tax amounts in dispute are on deposit with the South Korean tax authorities and CPM has booked receivables for the amounts on deposit. Corning believes that its tax positions are appropriate and is vigorously defending such positions. Our current analysis indicates that we have sufficient U.S. liquidity, including borrowing capacity, to fund foreseeable U.S. cash needs without requiring the repatriation of foreign cash. All Rights Reserved. The Purchased Assets constitute a business, which designs, manufactures and markets high bandwidth and optical fiber products. The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination. The goodwill was allocated to the Optical Communications segment. Other intangible assets consist of customer relationships, trade names and developed technology and are amortized over various useful lives ranging from 3 to 14 years. Acquisition-related costs of $16 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, included costs for legal, accounting, valuation and other professional services and were included in selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Supplemental pro forma information was not provided because the Purchased Assets are not material to Corning’s consolidated financial statements. All Rights Reserved. Accumulated impairment losses were $6.5 billion for the periods ended September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, and were generated primarily through goodwill impairments related to the Optical Communications segment. The net carrying amount of intangible assets increased during the first nine months of 2018, primarily due to the acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division of $511 million and other acquisition of $7 million of other intangible assets, offset by amortization of $68 million and foreign currency translation adjustments of $10 million. 10. The service cost component of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost is presented with other current compensation costs in operating income. All Rights Reserved. 12. These include gross notional value for average rate forwards of $12.1 billion and $13.0 billion, zero-cost collars and purchased put or call options of $2.6 billion and $1.3 billion at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The majority of the average rate forward contracts hedge a significant portion of the Company’s exposure to the Japanese yen with maturities spanning the years 2018-2022 and with gross notional values of $9.7 billion and $11.7 billion at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The average rate forward contracts also partially hedge the impacts of the South Korean won, Chinese yuan, euro and British pound translation on the Company’s projected net income. With respect to the zero-cost collars, the gross notional amount includes the value of both the put and call options. However, due to the nature of the zero-cost collars, only the put or the call option can be exercised at maturity. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Observable inputs are based on market data or independent sources while unobservable inputs are based on the Company’s own market assumptions. Fair value standards apply whenever an entity is measuring fair value under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurement and require the use of observable market data when available. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. The fair value of the contingent consideration was calculated to be $300 million as of December 31, 2017. This amount was settled in cash and received in June 2018. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. The Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holder and the Company upon certain events, at a conversion rate of 50,000 shares of Corning’s common stock per one share of Preferred Stock, subject to certain anti-dilution provisions. As of September 30, 2018, the Preferred Stock has not been converted, and none of the anti-dilution provisions have been triggered. In the second quarter of 2017, Corning entered into and finalized an accelerated share repurchase agreement under which we paid $500 million for a total of 17.1 million shares. In the third quarter of 2017, Corning entered into and finalized an additional accelerated share repurchase agreement under which we paid $500 million for a total of 17.2 million shares. In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 11.8 million and 63.4 million shares of common stock on the open market for approximately $384 million and $1.9 billion, respectively, as part of its 2016 and 2018 Repurchase Programs. Amounts in parentheses indicate debits to accumulated other comprehensive loss. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, amounts are net of tax benefit of $28 million and tax expense of $47 million, respectively. All Rights Reserved. Effective beginning in the first quarter of 2018, the Company has changed its measurement of segment sales and segment net income, and has recast prior periods presented based on the new methodology. Included in this new measurement is a change in our segment tax rate to 21% to better reflect the new corporate tax rate under the 2017 Tax Act. Additionally, the impact of changes in the Japanese yen, Korean won, Chinese yuan and New Taiwan dollar will be excluded from segment sales and segment net income for the Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments, and certain income and expenses that were previously allocated to our segments are now included in the unallocated amounts in the reconciliation of reportable segment net income to consolidated net income. Although we exclude these amounts from segment results, they are included in reported consolidated results. We included the earnings of equity affiliates that are closely associated with our reportable segments in the respective segment’s net income. We have allocated certain common expenses among reportable segments differently than we would for stand-alone financial information. Segment net income may not be consistent with measures used by other companies. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Where practicable, Corning charges these expenses to segments based upon the extent to which each business uses a centralized function. Other staff functions, such as corporate finance, human resources and legal, are allocated to segments, primarily as a percentage of sales. Expenses that are not allocated to the segments are included in the reconciliation of reportable segment net income to consolidated net income below. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “goals,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “continues,” “may,” “will,” “should,” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, uncertain events or assumptions, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described throughout this filing and particularly in “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of our 2017 Form 10-K, and as may be updated in our Forms 10-Q. Our actual results may differ materially, and these forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of September 30, 2018. The Framework outlines our leadership priorities and articulates the opportunities we see across our businesses. We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength. Under our Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion of cash through 2019, returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders and investing $10 billion to extend our leadership positions and deliver growth. Corning is concentrating approximately 80% of its research, development and engineering investment and capital spending on a cohesive set of three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms, and five market-access platforms. This strategy allows us to quickly apply our talents and repurpose our assets as needed. The increase in both periods was led by the Optical Communications segment, which increased $200 million and $409 million, respectively, due to higher sales of carrier network products in North America and Europe, an increase in sales of enterprise network products from growth in data centers and sales from 3M’s Communications Market Division which we acquired in June. Net sales in the Display Technologies segment increased by $57 million and $23 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, with volumes exceeding the display glass market’s strong growth and more than offsetting price declines. The Specialty Materials segment net sales increased by $86 million and $70 million, respectively, resulting from strong demand for Gorilla Glass products in support of new product releases. Net sales for Environmental Technologies increased $54 million and $155 million, respectively, driven by growth in all product categories. Life Sciences sales increased by $8 million and $54 million, respectively, driven by higher sales across all product lines. All Rights Reserved. In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with moderate year-over-year declines during the fourth quarter, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns. For the full year, we anticipate Corning’s glass volume will grow faster than the expected display glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China. In the Optical Communications segment, we expect sales to increase in the high-teen percentage range, including approximately $200 million from the acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division. We expect organic growth will improve by a low-teen percentage range driven by strong demand from carrier and enterprise network customers. We expect mid-single digit percentage growth in the Specialty Materials segment, driven by new model launches and the adoption of our innovations. We expect sales growth in the mid-teen percentage range in our Environmental Technologies segment, driven by continued strength in automotive product sales, on-going improvements in the heavy-duty diesel market and the commercial launch of gas-particulate filters. We expect mid-to-high single digit percentage growth in the Life Sciences segment. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. All Rights Reserved. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased by 1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Gross margin as a percentage of sales declined by 1% for the year to date period driven by glass price declines in the high-single digits in percentage terms, combined with spending for capacity expansions in the Display Technologies and Optical Communications segments. All Rights Reserved. As a percentage of sales, these expenses were flat when compared to the same period last year. As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly when compared to the same period last year. All Rights Reserved. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. These items include gains and losses on our translated earnings contracts, acquisition-related costs, certain discrete tax items, restructuring and restructuring-related charges, certain litigation-related expenses, pension mark-to-market adjustments and other items which do not reflect on-going operating results of the Company or our equity affiliates. Additionally, Corning has adopted the use of constant currency reporting for our Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments for the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan and New Taiwan dollar currencies. The Company believes that the use of constant currency reporting allows investors to understand our results without the volatility of currency fluctuations, and reflects the underlying economics of the translated earnings contracts used to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our earnings and cash flows. Corning also believes that reporting core performance measures provides investors greater transparency to the information used by our management team to make financial and operational decisions. We believe investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in evaluating our results as they are more indicative of our core operating performance and how management evaluates our operational results and trends. These measures are not, and should not be viewed as a substitute for, GAAP reporting measures. With respect to the Company’s outlooks for future periods, it is not possible to provide reconciliations for these non-GAAP measures because the Company does not forecast the movement of the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan or New Taiwan dollar against the U.S. dollar, or other items that do not reflect ongoing operations, nor does it forecast items that have not yet occurred or are out of the Company’s control. As a result, the Company is unable to provide outlook information on a GAAP basis. All Rights Reserved. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations – Core Performance Measures, Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures, “Items which we exclude from GAAP measures to arrive at core performance measures” for the descriptions of the footnoted reconciling items. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations – Core Performance Measures, Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures, “Items which we exclude from GAAP measures to arrive at core performance measures” for the descriptions of the footnoted reconciling items. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations – Core Performance Measures, Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures, “Items which we exclude from GAAP measures to arrive at core performance measures” for the descriptions of the footnoted reconciling items. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations – Core Performance Measures, Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures, “Items which we exclude from GAAP measures to arrive at core performance measures” for the descriptions of the footnoted reconciling items. All Rights Reserved. Presenting results on a constant-currency basis mitigates their translation impact and allows management to evaluate performance period over period, analyze underlying trends in our businesses, and establish operational goals and forecasts. We use an internally derived management rate of yuan 6.7, which is closely aligned to our current yuan portfolio of foreign currency hedges and consistent with historical prior period averages. We use an internally derived management rate of New Taiwan dollar 31, which is closely aligned to our current New Taiwan dollar portfolio of cash flow hedges, and approximates the 10-year historical average of the currency. All Rights Reserved. Effective beginning in the first quarter of 2018, the Company has changed its measurement of segment sales and segment net income, and has recast prior periods presented based on the new methodology. Although we exclude these amounts from segment results, they are included in reported consolidated results. We included the earnings of equity affiliates that are closely associated with our reportable segments in the respective segment’s net income. We have allocated certain common expenses among reportable segments differently than we would for stand-alone financial information. Segment net income may not be consistent with measures used by other companies. Capacity expansion in China is supporting the increase in volume. Net income decreased by $87 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 driven by expansion costs and price declines more than offsetting increases in glass volume. Display Technologies sales volumes are expected to grow faster than the market, driven by the Gen 10.5 ramp up in China. Fourth-quarter sequential glass price declines are expected to be even more moderate than the third quarter. All Rights Reserved. Higher sales of carrier products, up $107 million and $251 million, and enterprise network products, up $93 million and $158 million, respectively, drove the increase. Strong growth in the North American and European fiber-to-the-home and access markets drove the sales increase in carrier network products and growth in data centers drove the increase in enterprise sales. The acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division also contributed to sales growth. The increase was driven by the increase in sales. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, volume gains were partially offset by costs associated with our planned capacity expansions and lower sales prices. Net income increased by $30 million, or 35%, and $13 million, or 6% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily driven by the increase in sales and lower manufacturing costs. Automotive product sales increased $20 million and $72 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, due to global market strength and continued sales growth of gas particulate filters. Diesel product sales increased $34 million and $83 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. The increases were driven by higher demand for heavy-duty diesel products in North America and Europe. Movements in foreign exchange rates were not material when compared to the corresponding three-month period in 2017. The year to date impact is $29 million when compared to the corresponding nine-month period in 2017. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. The increase was driven by the sales increase outlined above and improved manufacturing efficiencies. Movements in foreign exchange rates had an immaterial effect on net income when compared to the three months ended September 2017, and impacted net income by $4 million when compared to the corresponding nine-month period in 2017. Movements in foreign exchange rates reduced net sales $2 million and increased net sales $12 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017. Movements in foreign exchange rates were not material when compared to the corresponding three-month and nine-month periods in 2017. The increase in the net loss of $8 million, or 13%, and $38 million, or 20%, reflects increased spending in our development projects when compared to the corresponding three and nine months ended September 30, 2017. The proceeds from these notes were received in Japanese yen and immediately converted to U.S. dollars on the date of issuance. The net proceeds received in U.S. dollars, after deducting offering expenses, was $596 million. Payments of principal and interest on the notes will be in Japanese yen, or should yen be unavailable due to circumstances beyond Corning’s control, a U.S. dollar equivalent. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. The Revolving Credit Agreement provides a $1.5 billion unsecured multi-currency line of credit and expires August 15, 2023. The required leverage ratio is a maximum of 60%. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 11.8 million and 63.4 million shares of common stock on the open market for approximately $384 million and $1.9 billion, respectively, as part of its 2016 and 2018 Repurchase Programs. We expect our 2018 capital expenditures to be slightly more than $2.0 billion, driven by expansions related to the Gen 10.5 glass manufacturing facility, the addition of capacity to support the new gas-particulate filters business in the Environmental Technologies segment and investment to support growth in customer demand in the Optical Communications and Specialty Materials segments. A decrease of $184 million in share repurchases partially offset the negative cash impact of these items. All Rights Reserved. Our cash and cash equivalents are held in various locations throughout the world, with approximately 72% held outside of the United States, and are generally unrestricted. We utilize a variety of financing strategies to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. In the first three quarters of 2018, the Company distributed approximately $2.2 billion from its foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. parent of those subsidiaries. There were no incremental taxes beyond the Toll Charge due with the respect to this distribution of cash. We are currently party to two interest rate swaps that are designated as fair value hedges and economically exchange a notional amount of $550 million of previously issued fixed rate long-term debt to floating rate debt. Under the terms of the swap agreements, we pay the counterparty a floating rate that is indexed to the one-month LIBOR rate. In addition, the company has entered into $300 million of treasury lock agreements to economically fix the benchmark interest rate associated with future debt issuances. This hedge is designated as a cash flow hedge. Under this program, the Company may issue the paper from time to time and will use the proceeds for general corporate purposes. The Company’s Revolving Credit Agreement is available to support obligations under the commercial paper program, if needed. At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 Corning did not have outstanding commercial paper. We closely monitor payments and developments which may signal possible customer credit issues. We currently have not identified any potential material impact on our liquidity resulting from customer credit issues. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to fund operations, acquisitions, capital expenditures, scheduled debt repayments, dividend payments and share repurchase programs. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. The required leverage ratio is a maximum of 60%. At September 30, 2018, our leverage using this measure was approximately 28%. As of September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with the terms of the Revolving Credit Agreement. In addition, some of our debt instruments contain a cross default provision, whereby an uncured default in excess of a specified amount on one debt obligation of the Company, also would be considered a default under the terms of another debt instrument. As of September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all such provisions. In addition, other than items discussed, there are no known material trends, favorable or unfavorable, in our capital resources and no expected material changes in the mix and relative cost of such resources. The estimates that require management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments are described in our 2017 Form 10-K and remain unchanged through the first nine months of 2018. For certain items, additional details are provided below. We review our long-lived assets in each quarter in which impairment indicators are present. We must exercise judgment in assessing whether an event of impairment has occurred. These metals are not depreciated because they have very low physical losses and are repeatedly reclaimed and reused in our manufacturing process and have a very long useful life. Precious metals are reviewed for impairment as part of our assessment of long-lived assets. This review considers all of the Company’s precious metals that are either in place in the production process; in reclamation, fabrication, or refinement in anticipation of re-use; or awaiting use to support increased capacity. Precious metals are only acquired to support our manufacturing operations and are not held for trading or other purposes. These precious metals are utilized by the Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments. Corning believes these precious metal assets to be recoverable due to the significant positive cash flow in both segments. The potential for impairment exists in the future if negative events significantly decrease the cash flow of these segments. Such events include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in demand for products or a significant decrease in profitability in our Display Technologies or Specialty Materials segments. All Rights Reserved. Under the Superfund Act, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a hazardous waste site, identified by the Agency, are jointly and severally liable for the cost of cleanup unless the Agency agrees otherwise. It is Corning’s policy to accrue for its estimated liability related to Superfund sites and other environmental liabilities related to property owned by Corning based on expert analysis and continual monitoring by both internal and external consultants. Based upon the information developed to date, management believes that the accrued reserve is a reasonable estimate of the Company’s liability and that the risk of an additional loss in an amount materially higher than that accrued is remote. Such statements relate to future events that by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. These forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, the company’s future operating performance, the company's share of new and existing markets, the company's revenue and earnings growth rates, the company’s ability to innovate and commercialize new products, and the company’s implementation of cost-reduction initiatives and measures to improve pricing, including the optimization of the company’s manufacturing capacity. The company does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. All Rights Reserved. Volatility in the global financial markets could increase the volatility of foreign currency exchange rates which would, in turn, impact our sales and net income. For a discussion of our exposure to market risk and how we mitigate that risk, refer to Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks, contained in our 2017 Form 10-K. ITEM 4. Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date. Corning’s disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Corning in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Corning’s management, including Corning’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or other persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that there was no change in Corning’s internal control over financial reporting that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3. Risk Factors in our 2017 Form 10-K, which could materially impact our business, financial condition or future results. Risks disclosed in our 2017 Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or operating results. There have been no material changes to Part I, Item 1A. All Rights Reserved. © 2018 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. All Rights Reserved. All Rights Reserved. 48