Employer Identification No. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations27ITEM 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk27ITEM 4. Controls and Procedures37PART II - OTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1. Legal Proceedings38ITEM 1A. Risk Factors38ITEM 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds38ITEM 6. Our technologies, services and employee expertise enable us to provide a broad range of solutions that allow our customers to accept various payment types and operate their businesses more efficiently. We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in 2000 and spun-off from our former parent company in 2001. Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payment technology services business since 1967. Global Payments Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries are referred to collectively as "Global Payments," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us," unless the context requires otherwise. These unaudited consolidated financial statements include our accounts and those of our majority-owned subsidiaries, and all intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 was derived from the audited financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP for annual financial statements.In the opinion of our management, all known adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods have been made. These adjustments consist of normal recurring accruals and estimates that affect the carrying amount of assets and liabilities. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.Use of estimates— The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. We elected the modified retrospective transition method, which resulted in a net increase to retained earnings of $51.0 million for the cumulative effect of applying the standard. The primary component of the cumulative-effect adjustment was the result of changes in the accounting for certain costs to obtain customer contracts and the related income tax effects, which resulted in increases to other noncurrent assets and deferred income tax liabilities of $64.6 million and $15.6 million, respectively. Previously, we amortized these assets to expense over the related contract term. Under ASC 340-40, we now amortize these assets over the expected period of benefit, which is generally longer than the initial contract term. Under the new standard, we also capitalized certain costs that were not previously capitalized, including certain commissions and related payroll taxes and certain costs incurred to fulfill a contract before the performance obligation has been satisfied, primarily compensation to employees engaged in customer implementation activities in our technology-enabled businesses.Under the modified retrospective transition method, we are required to provide additional disclosures during 2018 of the amount by which each financial statement line item is affected in the current reporting period, as compared to the guidance that was in effect before the change, and an explanation of the reasons for significant changes, if any. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we presented revenue net of certain payments made to third parties, including payment networks. This change in presentation 9Table of Contentshad the effect of reducing our revenues and operating expenses by the same amounts. As a result, revenues, cost of service and selling, general and administrative expenses were lower than the amounts without the effect of the new accounting standard by $291.3 million, $273.6 million and $17.7 million, respectively, during the three months ended September 30, 2018; and lower than the amounts without the effect of the new accounting standard by $825.5 million, $774.5 million and $51.0 million, respectively, during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The ASU expands and refines hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial risk components and aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial statements. In addition, the amendments in this update modify disclosure requirements for presentation of hedging activities. Those modifications include a tabular disclosure related to the effect on the income statement of fair value and cash flow hedges and eliminate the requirement to disclose the ineffective portion of the change in fair value of hedging instruments, if any. The ASU clarifies the definition of a business, which affects many areas of accounting including acquisitions, disposals, goodwill and consolidation. The ASU became effective for us on January 1, 2018. These amendments have been applied prospectively from the date of adoption. The effect of ASU 2017-01 is dependent upon the nature of future acquisitions or dispositions that we make. The amendments in this update state that an entity should recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory, such as intellectual property and property and equipment, when the transfer occurs. The amendments in this update address certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. Equity investments that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting or result in consolidation of an investee are not included within the scope of this update. The amendments allow equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values to be remeasured at fair value either upon the occurrence of an observable price change or upon identification of an impairment. The amendments also require enhanced disclosures about those investments. We adopted ASU 2016-01 on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method with no material effect on our consolidated financial statements.Recently Issued Pronouncements Not Yet AdoptedNew Lease Accounting StandardIn February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases." This update requires lessees to recognize, on the balance sheet, assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by leases. In addition, several new disclosures will be required.Although early adoption is permitted, we expect to adopt ASU 2016-02, as well as other related clarifications and interpretive guidance issued by the FASB, when it becomes effective for us on January 1, 2019. We plan to elect the optional modified retrospective transition method to apply the provisions of the new standard at the adoption date, which will result in recognition and measurement 10Table of Contentsof assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by leases in the period of adoption. Under this transition method, we would not recast the prior financial statements presented. We have not completed our evaluation of the effect of ASU 2016-02 on our consolidated financial statements; however, we expect to recognize right of use assets and liabilities for our operating leases in the balance sheet upon adoption. We plan to elect the transition package of three practical expedients, which among other things, allows for the carryforward of historical lease classifications, and we expect to make an accounting policy election to not apply the recognition requirements to leases with a term of less than twelve months. Our existing leases consist primarily of real estate leases for office space throughout the markets in which we conduct business. We are currently finalizing the analysis of our existing lease arrangements to evaluate the potential effects of this new accounting standard on our consolidated financial statements. We expect to implement new accounting processes and internal controls to meet the requirements for financial reporting and disclosures of our leases and are coordinating with various internal stakeholders to evaluate, design and implement these new processes and controls. We are also implementing a new technology solution to assist with the necessary calculations to support the accounting and disclosure requirements of the new accounting standard. We expect these evaluation and implementation activities will continue throughout the remainder of 2018 prior to the effective date of adoption on January 1, 2019.SEC Rules and Other Accounting Standards Updates Not Yet AdoptedIn August 2018, the SEC issued a final rule that amends certain of its disclosure requirements. The changes are generally intended to reduce or eliminate certain disclosures that have become redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded in light of other disclosures requirements or changes in the information environment. The rule also requires SEC registrants to present changes in stockholders' equity and the amount of dividends per share for each class of shares on a quarterly basis for the current and prior-year periods. This ASU provides additional guidance on the accounting for costs of implementation activities performed in a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract. The amendments in this update also provide additional disclosure requirements to disclose the nature of an entity’s hosting arrangements that are service contracts. This ASU is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2019. This ASU provides an update to modify the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements in Topic 820. This ASU is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2019. This ASU requires disclosure of a description of the accounting policy for releasing income tax effects from AOCI; whether election is made to reclassify the stranded income tax effects from the 2017 U.S. Tax Act; and information about the income tax effects that are reclassified. This ASU is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018. The amendments in this update change how companies measure and recognize credit impairment for many financial assets. The update also made amendments to the current impairment model for held-to-maturity and available-for-sale debt securities and certain guarantees. The guidance will become effective for us on January 1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. This transaction was accounted for as a business combination, which requires that we record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value as of the acquisition date. Due to the timing of the acquisition, the accounting for this acquisition was not complete as of September 30, 2018. The fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed have been determined provisionally and are subject to adjustment as we obtain additional information. In particular, additional time is needed to determine the valuation of assets and liabilities and to evaluate the basis differences for assets and liabilities for financial reporting and tax purposes. As of September 30, 2018, we provisionally estimated that substantially all of the total identifiable assets were comprised of goodwill and other intangible assets. We expect the intangible assets to be similar in nature to intangible assets we have acquired in other recent acquisitions, including customer-related intangible assets and acquired technology. Further, our methodology for estimating the acquisition-date fair values of identified intangible assets is consistent with the approach we have applied in other recent acquisitions of similar businesses.Goodwill arising from the acquisition, included in the North America segment, was attributable to expected growth opportunities, potential synergies from combining our existing businesses and an assembled workforce. Due to the timing of the transaction, we have not allocated the provisional estimated goodwill of $469 million to a reporting unit. ACTIVE Network delivers cloud-based enterprise software, including payment technology solutions, to event organizers in the communities and health and fitness markets. The acquisition-date fair value of 6,357,509 shares of our common stock issued to the sellers was determined based on the share price of our common stock as of the acquisition date and the effect of certain transfer restrictions.This transaction was accounted for as a business combination, which requires that we record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value as of the acquisition date. Goodwill of $784.2 million arising from the acquisition, included in the North America segment, was attributable to expected growth opportunities, potential synergies from combining our existing businesses and an assembled workforce. The discount rate used is the average estimated value of a market participant’s cost of capital and debt, derived using customary market metrics. Acquired technology was valued using the replacement cost method, which required us to estimate the cost to construct an asset of equivalent utility at prices available at the time of the valuation analysis, with adjustments in value for physical deterioration and functional and economic obsolescence. Trademarks and trade names were valued using the relief-from-royalty approach. This method assumes that trademarks and trade names have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. This method required us to estimate the future revenue for the related brands, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted-average cost of capital. The discount rate used is the average estimated value of a market participant’s cost of capital and debt, derived using customary market metrics.NOTE 3—REVENUESWe are a leading worldwide provider of payment technology and software solutions delivering innovative services to our customers globally. Our technologies, services and employee expertise enable us to provide a broad range of solutions that allow our customers to accept various payment types and operate their businesses more efficiently. We distribute our services across a variety of channels to customers. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, substantially all of our revenues were recognized over time.Nature of our Customer ArrangementsOur payment services customers contract with us for payment services, which we provide in exchange for consideration for completed transactions. Our payment solutions are similar around the world in that we enable our customers to accept card, electronic and digital-based payments at the point of sale. In addition, we may sell or rent point-of-sale terminals or other equipment to customers.At contract inception, we assess the goods and services promised in our contracts with customers and identify a performance obligation for each promise to transfer to the customer a good or service that is distinct. For our payment services specifically, the nature of our promise to the customer is that we stand ready to process transactions the customer requests on a daily basis over the contract term. Since the timing and quantity of transactions to be processed by us is not determinable, we view payment services to comprise an obligation to stand ready to process as many transactions as the customer requires. Under a stand-ready obligation, the evaluation of the nature of our performance obligation is focused on each time increment rather than the underlying activities. Therefore, we view payment services to comprise a series of distinct days of service that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. Accordingly, the promise to stand ready is accounted for as a single-series performance obligation.In order to provide our payment services, we route and clear each transaction through the applicable payment network. We obtain authorization for the transaction and request funds settlement from the card issuing financial institution through the payment network. When third parties are involved in the transfer of goods or services to our customer, we consider the nature of each specific promised good or service and apply judgment to determine whether we control the good or service before it is transferred to the customer or whether we are acting as an agent of the third party. To determine whether or not we control the good or service before it is transferred to the customer, we assess indicators including whether we or the third party is primarily responsible for fulfillment and which party has discretion in determining pricing for the good or service, as well as other considerations. Based on our assessment of these indicators, we have concluded that our promise to our customer to provide our payment services is distinct from the services provided by the card issuing financial institutions and payment networks in connection with payment transactions. We do not have the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the benefits of the services provided by the card issuing financial institutions and payment networks before those services are transferred to our customer, and on that basis, we do not control those services prior to being transferred to our customer. As a result, we present our revenue net of the interchange fees charged by the card issuing financial institutions and the fees charged by the payment networks.The majority of our processing services are priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on the card type. We also charge other per occurrence fees based on specific services that may be unrelated to the number of transactions or transaction value. Given the nature of the promise and the underlying fees based on unknown quantities or outcomes of services to be performed over the contract term, the total consideration is determined to be variable consideration. The variable consideration for our payment processing service is usage-based and therefore it specifically relates to our efforts to satisfy our payment services obligation. In other words, the variability is satisfied each day the service is provided to the customer. We directly ascribe variable fees to the distinct day of service to which it relates, and we consider the services performed each 15Table of Contentsday in order to ascribe the appropriate amount of total fees to that day. Therefore, we measure revenue for our payment processing service on a daily basis based on the services that are performed on that day. SaaS arrangements are generally offered on a subscription basis, providing the customers with access to the SaaS platform along with general support and maintenance services. Because these promised services within our SaaS arrangements are delivered concurrently over the contract term, we account for these promises as if they are a single performance obligation that includes a series of distinct services with the same pattern of transfer to the customer. In addition, certain installation services are not considered distinct from the SaaS, and are therefore recognized over the expected period of benefit.Once we determine the performance obligations and the transaction price, including an estimate of any variable consideration, we then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract using a relative standalone selling price method. We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the good or service is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price by considering all reasonably available information, including market conditions, trends or other company- or customer-specific factors. Substantially all of the performance obligations described above are satisfied over time. Only equipment sales, perpetual software licenses and certain professional services are generally transferred to the customer at a point in time. For certain other professional services that represent separate performance obligations, we generally use the input method and recognize revenue based on the number of hours incurred or services performed to date in relation to the total services expected to be required to satisfy the performance obligation. We satisfy the combined SaaS performance obligation by standing ready to provide access to the SaaS. Consideration for SaaS arrangements may consist of fixed- or usage-based fees. Revenue is recognized over the period for which the services are provided or by directly ascribing any variable fees to the distinct day of service based on the services that are performed on that day. Transaction Price Allocated to Future Performance ObligationsASC 606 requires disclosure of the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations; however, as permitted by ASC 606, we have elected to exclude from this disclosure any contracts with an original duration of one year or less and any variable consideration that meets specified criteria. As described above, our most significant performance obligations consist of variable consideration under a stand-ready series of distinct days of service. Such variable consideration meets the specified criteria for the disclosure exclusion; therefore, the majority of the aggregate amount of transaction price that is allocated to performance obligations that have not yet been satisfied is variable consideration that is not required for this disclosure. The aggregate fixed consideration portion of customer contracts with an initial contract duration greater than one year is not material.Accounts Receivable, Contract Assets and Contract LiabilitiesA contract with a customer creates legal rights and obligations. As we perform under customer contracts, our right to consideration that is unconditional is considered to be accounts receivable. If our right to consideration for such performance is contingent upon a future event or satisfaction of additional performance obligations, the amount of revenues we have recognized in excess of the amount we have billed to the customer is recognized as a contract asset. Contract liabilities represent consideration received from customers in excess of revenues recognized. Contract assets and liabilities are presented net at the individual contract level in the consolidated balance sheet and are classified as current or noncurrent based on the nature of the underlying contractual rights and obligations.Net contract liabilities included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet were $114.1 million at September 30, 2018, $116.9 million at July 1, 2018 and $100.6 million at January 1, 2018. Net contract liabilities included in other noncurrent liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet were $7.9 million at September 30, 2018, $8.3 million at July 1, 2018 and $6.0 million at January 1, 2018. Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 included $39.2 million that was in contract liabilities at July 1, 2018. Revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included $90.2 million that was in contract liabilities at January 1, 2018. Net contract assets were not material at September 30, 2018 or at January 1, 2018.16Table of ContentsContract CostsWe incur costs to obtain contracts with customers, including employee sales commissions and fees to business partners. At contract inception, we capitalize such costs that we expect to recover and that would not have been incurred if the contract had not been obtained. At September 30, 2018, we had net capitalized costs to obtain and to fulfill contracts of $181.8 million and $9.8 million, respectively, included in other noncurrent assets on our consolidated balance sheet. Contract costs are amortized on a systematic basis consistent with the transfer to the customer of the goods or services to which the asset relates. A straight-line or proportional amortization method is used depending upon which method best depicts the pattern of transfer of the goods or services to the customer. In addition, these contract costs are evaluated for impairment by comparing, on a pooled basis, the expected future net cash flows from underlying customer relationships to the carrying amount of the capitalized contract costs. At September 30, 2018, none of our capitalized contract costs were impaired.In order to determine the appropriate amortization period for contract costs, we consider a combination of factors, including customer attrition rates, estimated terms of customer relationships, the useful lives of technology we use to provide goods and services to our customers, whether future contract renewals are expected and if there is any incremental commission to be paid on a contract renewal. We amortize these assets over the expected period of benefit, which, based on the factors noted above, is typically 7 years. Costs to obtain a contract with an expected period of benefit of one year or less are recognized as an expense when incurred. Substantially all of the assets of our domestic subsidiaries are pledged as collateral under the Credit Facility. The borrowings outstanding under our Credit Facility as of September 30, 2018 reflect activities we completed earlier in 2018, including a reduction to the interest rate margins applicable to our Term A Loan, Term A-2 Loan, Term B-2 Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility, an extension of the maturity dates of the Term A Loan, Term A-2 Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility, and an increase in the total financing capacity under the Credit Facility to approximately $5.5 billion in June 2018. In October 2018, we entered into an additional term loan in the amount of $500 million. As of September 30, 2018, the interest rates on the Term A Loan, the Term A-2 Loan and the Term B-2 Loan were 3.74%, 3.66% and 3.99%, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, the interest rate on the Revolving Credit Facility was 3.66%. In addition, we are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility at an applicable rate per annum ranging from 0.20% to 0.30% depending on our leverage ratio. 19Table of ContentsThe Term A Loan and the Term A-2 Loan mature, and the Revolving Credit Facility expires, on January 20, 2023. The Term B-2 Loan matures on April 22, 2023. The Term A Loan and Term A-2 Loan principals must be repaid in quarterly installments in the amount of 0.625% of principal through June 2019, increasing to 1.25% of principal through June 2021, increasing to 1.875% of principal through June 2022 and increasing to 2.50% through December 2022, with the remaining principal balance due upon maturity in January 2023. The Term B-2 Loan principal must be repaid in quarterly installments in the amount of 0.25% of principal through March 2023, with the remaining principal balance due upon maturity in April 2023.We may issue standby letters of credit of up to $100 million in the aggregate under the Revolving Credit Facility. Outstanding letters of credit under the Revolving Credit Facility reduce the amount of borrowings available to us under the Revolving Credit Facility. Borrowings available to us under the Revolving Credit Facility are further limited by the covenants described below under "Compliance with Covenants." The total available commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $636.4 million and $473.3 million, respectively. The portion of deferred debt issuance costs related to the Revolving Credit Facility is included in other noncurrent assets, and the portion of deferred debt issuance costs related to the term loans is reported as a reduction to the carrying amount of the term loans. Debt issuance costs are amortized as an adjustment to interest expense over the terms of the respective facilities.Settlement Lines of CreditIn various markets where we do business, we have specialized lines of credit, which are restricted for use in funding settlement. The settlement lines of credit generally have variable interest rates, are subject to annual review and are denominated in local currency but may, in some cases, facilitate borrowings in multiple currencies. For certain of our settlement lines of credit, the available credit is increased by the amount of cash we have on deposit in specific accounts with the lender. Accordingly, the amount of the outstanding line of credit may exceed the stated credit limit. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, a total of $68.5 million and $59.3 million, respectively, of cash on deposit was used to determine the available credit.As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, we had $685.9 million and $635.2 million outstanding under these lines of credit with additional capacity of $759.9 million as of September 30, 2018 to fund settlement. The weighted-average interest rate on these borrowings was 2.81% and 1.97% at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the maximum and average outstanding balances under these lines of credit were $828.2 million and $409.8 million, respectively.Compliance with CovenantsThe Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and restrictive covenants, including, among others, financial covenants based on our leverage and interest coverage ratios, as defined in the agreement. The interest coverage ratio is required to be no less than 3.25 to 1.00.The Credit Facility and settlement lines of credit also include various other covenants that are customary in such borrowings. The Credit Facility includes covenants, subject in each case to exceptions and qualifications, that may restrict certain payments, including in certain circumstances, the payment of cash dividends in excess of our current rate of $0.01 per share per quarter. The Credit Facility also includes customary events of default, the occurrence of which, following any applicable cure period, would permit the lenders to, among other things, declare the principal, accrued interest and other obligations to be immediately due and payable. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of September 30, 2018.Interest Rate Swap AgreementsWe have interest rate swap agreements with financial institutions to hedge changes in cash flows attributable to interest rate risk on a portion of our variable-rate debt instruments. Net amounts to be received or paid under the swap agreements are reflected as adjustments to interest expense. Since we have designated the interest rate swap agreements as portfolio cash flow hedges, 20Table of Contentsunrealized gains or losses resulting from adjusting the swaps to fair value are recorded as components of other comprehensive income. The fair values of the interest rate swaps were determined based on the present value of the estimated future net cash flows using implied rates in the applicable yield curve as of the valuation date. NOTE 7—INCOME TAXOn December 22, 2017, the United States enacted the 2017 U.S. Tax Act, which resulted in numerous changes, including a reduction in the U.S. federal tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018 and the transition of the U.S. federal tax system to a territorial regime. As of September 30, 2018, we have not completed our accounting for the effects of the 2017 U.S. Tax Act; however, we made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax as of December 31, 2017 pursuant to guidance provided in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. We have continued to analyze our foreign tax pools and resulting foreign tax credits and, during the three months ended September 30, 2018, reduced our estimated transition tax liability by $23.3 21Table of Contentsmillion. We are continuing to gather additional information to complete our accounting for these items and expect to complete our accounting within the prescribed measurement period.Our effective income tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was a benefit of 3.4%. Our effective income tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was 11.7%. Our effective income tax rates for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 were 10.4% and 14.4%, respectively. Our 2017 effective income tax rates differed from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to income generated in international jurisdictions with lower tax rates. Our 2018 effective income tax rates differed from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to changes in estimates of prior year liabilities, including the aforementioned $23.3 million adjustment to the one-time transition tax liability recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2018.We conduct business globally and file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities around the world, including, without limitation, the United States and the United Kingdom. We are no longer subject to state income tax examinations for years ended on or before May 31, 2008, U.S. federal income tax examinations for fiscal years prior to 2014 and U.K. federal income tax examinations for years ended on or before May 31, 2014.NOTE 8—SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITYWe make repurchases of our common stock mainly through open market repurchase plans and, at times, through accelerated share repurchase programs. As of September 30, 2018, we were authorized to repurchase up to $419.1 million of our common stock. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, through open market repurchase plans, we repurchased and retired 1,612,174 shares of our common stock, respectively, at a cost of $180.9 million, or an average cost of $112.19 per share, including commissions. For restricted stock and performance awards, we recognized compensation expense of $13.8 million and $8.6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and $41.1 million and $27.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, there was $67.7 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested restricted stock and performance awards that we expect to recognize over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years. The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 was $15.9 million and $9.9 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, we had $4.4 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock options that we expect to recognize over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.23Table of ContentsThe weighted-average grant-date fair value of each stock option granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 was $35.09 and $23.68, respectively. Our assumption on expected volatility is based on our historical volatility. The dividend yield assumption is calculated using our average stock price over the preceding year and the annualized amount of our most current quarterly dividend per share. We based our assumptions on the expected term of the options on our analysis of the historical exercise patterns of the options and our assumption on the future exercise pattern of options. Earnings available to common shareholders is the same as reported net income attributable to Global Payments for all periods presented. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net income attributable to Global Payments by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period, including the effect of share-based awards that would have a dilutive effect on EPS. We evaluate performance and allocate resources based on the operating income of each operating segment. The operating income of each operating segment includes the revenues of the segment less expenses that are directly related to those revenues. Operating overhead, shared costs and certain compensation costs are included in Corporate in the following table. Interest and other income, interest and other expense and provision for income taxes are not allocated to the individual segments. We do not evaluate the performance of or allocate resources to our operating segments using asset data. The accounting policies of the reportable operating segments are the same as those described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and our summary of significant accounting policies in "Note 1—Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. This change in presentation affected our reported revenues and operating expenses during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 by the same amount and had no effect on operating income. For further discussion, see "Note 2—Acquisitions." During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, operating loss for Corporate included acquisition and integration expenses of $21.5 million and $69.5 million, respectively.NOTE 13—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIESLeasesIn May 2017, we sold our operating facility in Jeffersonville, Indiana, which we acquired as part of the Heartland merger, for $37.5 million and simultaneously leased the property back for an initial term of 20 years, followed by four optional renewal terms of five years. The arrangement met the criteria to be treated as a sale for accounting purposes, and as a result, we derecognized the associated property. There was no resulting gain or loss on the sale because the proceeds received were equal to the carrying amount of the property. We used the proceeds from the Term B-4 Loan to pay down a portion of the balance outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility. Like the other term loans issued under the Credit Facility, interest on the Term B-4 Loan will accrue at an interest rate, at our election, of either LIBOR or a base rate, in each case plus a margin. The Term B-4 Loan principal must be repaid in quarterly installments in the amount of 0.25% of principal through September 2025, with the remaining principal balance due upon maturity in October 2025.ITEM 3—QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKInterest Rate RiskWe are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates on our long-term debt and cash investments. We invest our excess cash in securities that we believe are highly liquid and marketable in the short term. These investments earn a floating rate of interest and are not held for trading or other speculative purposes. We have a Credit Facility for general corporate purposes, as well as various lines of credit that we use to fund settlement in certain of our markets. Interest rates on these debt instruments and settlement lines of credit are based on market rates and fluctuate accordingly. As of September 30, 2018, $5.5 billion was outstanding under these variable-rate debt arrangements and settlement lines of credit. The interest earned on our invested cash and the interest incurred on our debt are based on variable interest rates; therefore, the exposure of our net income to a change in interest rates is partially mitigated as an increase in rates would increase both interest income and interest expense, and a reduction in rates would decrease both interest income and interest expense. Under our current policies, we may selectively use derivative instruments, such as interest rate swaps or forward rate agreements, to manage all or a portion of our exposure to interest rate changes. We have interest rate swaps that reduce a portion of our exposure to market interest rate risk on our LIBOR-based debt as discussed in "Note 6—Long-Term Debt and Lines of Credit" in the notes to our accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements.Based on balances outstanding under variable-rate debt agreements, with consideration given to the related interest rate swaps, and interest-earning cash balances at September 30, 2018, a hypothetical change of 50 basis points in applicable interest rates as of September 30, 2018 would change our annual interest expense by approximately $20.5 million and change our annual interest income by approximately $2.3 million.Foreign Currency Exchange Rate RiskA portion of our revenues and expenses may be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We are also affected by fluctuations in exchange rates on assets and liabilities related to our foreign operations. We have not historically hedged our translation risk on foreign currency exposure, but we may do so in the future.ITEM 2—MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 1 of Part 1 of this Quarterly Report and the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements about our plans and expectations of what may happen in the future. Forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions and estimates that are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated by our forward-looking statements. See "Forward-Looking Statements" below for additional information. 27Table of ContentsExecutive OverviewWe are a leading worldwide provider of payment technology services and software solutions delivering innovative solutions to our customers globally. Our technologies, services and employee expertise enable us to provide a broad range of services that allow our customers to accept various payment types and operate their businesses more efficiently. See "Note 2—Acquisitions" and "Note 14—Subsequent Events" in the notes to the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our acquisitions.As more fully described in "Note 1—Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and "Note 3—Revenues" in the notes to the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements, we adopted a new revenue accounting standard on January 1, 2018 that results in revenue being presented net of certain fees that we pay to third parties, including payment network fees. This change in presentation affected our reported revenues and operating expenses during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 by the same amount and had no effect on operating income. Consolidated revenues without the effect of the new revenue accounting standard increased by 10.6% and 13.3% to $1,149.2 million and $3,309.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $1,038.9 million and $2,920.9 million, respectively, for the prior-year periods, primarily due to organic growth.•Consolidated operating income was $223.2 million and $570.1 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $172.5 million and $409.3 million, respectively, for the prior-year periods. Our operating margin for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was 26.0% and 22.9%, respectively. Without the effect of the new accounting standard, our operating margin for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was 18.6% and 16.3%, respectively, compared to 16.6% and 14.0% for the prior-year periods. •Net income attributable to Global Payments was $176.4 million and $376.8 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $110.7 million and $226.5 million, respectively, for the prior-year periods.•Diluted earnings per share was $1.11 and $2.36, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $0.71 and $1.47, respectively, for the prior-year periods.Emerging TrendsThe payments industry continues to grow worldwide and as a result, certain large payment technology companies, including us, have expanded operations globally by pursuing acquisitions and creating alliances and joint ventures. We expect to continue to expand into new markets and increase our scale and improve our competitiveness in existing markets by pursuing further acquisitions and joint ventures. We believe electronic payment transactions will continue to grow and that an increasing percentage of these will be facilitated through emerging technologies. As a result, we expect an increasing portion of our future capital investment will be allocated to 28Table of Contentssupport the development of new and emerging technologies; however, we do not expect our aggregate capital spending to increase materially from our current level of spending as a result of this. We also believe new markets will continue to develop in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions. We expect industries such as education, government and healthcare, as well as payment types such as recurring payments and business-to-business payments, to continue to see transactions migrate to electronic-based solutions. We anticipate that the continued development of new services and the emergence of new vertical markets will be a factor in the growth of our business and our revenue in the future.29Table of ContentsResults of OperationsThe following table sets forth key selected financial data for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, this data as a percentage of total revenues and the changes between the periods in dollars and as a percentage of the prior-year amount. This change in presentation affected our reported revenues and operating expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2018 by the same amount and had no effect on operating income. These expenses are included primarily in selling, general and administrative expenses in the unaudited consolidated statements of income.30Table of ContentsThe following table sets forth key selected financial data for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, this data as a percentage of total revenues and the changes between the periods in dollars and as a percentage of the prior-year amount. This change in presentation affected our reported revenues and operating expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 by the same amount and had no effect on operating income. These expenses are included primarily in selling, general and administrative expenses in the unaudited consolidated statements of income.31Table of ContentsRevenuesAs stated above, effective January 1, 2018 our revenues are presented net of certain fees that we pay to third parties, including payment networks. This change in presentation affected our reported revenues and operating expenses for the current-year periods by the same amount and had no effect on operating income. Consolidated revenues without the effect of the new revenue accounting standard increased by 10.6% and 13.3%, respectively, to $1,149.2 million and $3,309.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $1,038.9 million and $2,920.9 million, respectively, for the prior-year periods.North America Segment. The change in presentation decreased our reported North America segment revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 by $188.7 million and $545.4 million, respectively. Revenues from our North America segment without the effect of the new revenue accounting standard increased by 8.9% and 11.1%, respectively, to $832.7 million and $2,402.9 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the increase in revenue was primarily due to organic growth. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the increase in revenue was primarily due to the acquisition of ACTIVE Network.Europe Segment. The change in presentation decreased our reported Europe segment revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 by $83.5 million and $223.8 million, respectively. Revenues from our Europe segment without the effect of the new revenue accounting standard increased by 17.5% and 22.1%, respectively, to $241.1 million and $680.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to organic growth.Asia-Pacific Segment. The change in presentation decreased our reported Asia-Pacific segment revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 by $19.0 million and $56.3 million, respectively. Revenues from our Asia-Pacific segment without the effect of the new revenue accounting standard increased by 9.6% and 12.6%, respectively, to $75.4 million and $226.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to organic growth.Operating ExpensesCost of Service. As described above, effective January 1, 2018, the new revenue accounting standard changed our presentation of certain fees that we pay to third parties, including payment network fees, which decreased cost of services by $273.6 million and $774.5 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. Cost of service without the effect of the new revenue accounting standard increased by 9.3% and 9.9%, respectively, to $539.9 million and $1,559.8 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to additional costs associated with revenue growth. Cost of service without the effect of the new accounting standard as a percentage of revenues without the effect of the new accounting standard were 47.0% and 47.1%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 47.5% and 48.6%, respectively, for the prior-year periods.Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. As described above, effective January 1, 2018, the new revenue accounting standard changed our presentation of certain fees that we pay to third parties, which decreased selling, general and administrative expenses by $17.7 million and $51.0 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses without the effect of the new revenue accounting standard increased by 6.2% and 10.6%, respectively, to $395.8 million and $1,208.5 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to additional costs to support the growth of our business, partially offset by a reduction in acquisition and integration expenses of $13.3 million and $34.9 million, respectively. Selling, general and administrative expenses without the effect of the new accounting standard as a percentage of revenues without the effect of the new accounting standard decreased to 34.4% and 36.5%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 35.9% and 37.4%, respectively, for the prior-year periods, primarily due to the reduction in acquisition and integration expenses.Operating Income and Operating MarginNorth America Segment. Operating income in our North America segment increased by 25.8% and 29.6%, respectively, to $174.0 million and $446.6 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the prior-year periods, primarily due to the acquisition of ACTIVE Network. Europe Segment. Operating income in our Europe segment increased by 12.6% and 21.7%, respectively, to $85.8 million and $239.0 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the prior-year periods, primarily due to organic growth. Operating margin without the effect of the new accounting standard decreased to 35.6% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to 37.1% for the prior-year period. Operating margin without the effect of the new accounting standard was 35.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Asia-Pacific Segment. Operating income in our Asia-Pacific segment increased by 18.3% and 17.0%, respectively, to $23.7 million and $67.0 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the prior-year periods, primarily due to organic growth. Operating margin without the effect of the new accounting standard increased to 31.0% and 29.3% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 29.1% and 28.6% for the prior-year periods as a result of continued growth in organic revenue. Corporate. The increase during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was due to a gain of approximately $9.6 million recognized on the reorganization of a debit network association of which we were a member through one of our Canadian subsidiaries.Interest and other expense increased by $5.6 million and $9.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the prior-year periods, to $46.4 million and $139.7 million, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was a benefit of 3.4%. Our effective income tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was 11.7%. Our effective income tax rates for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 were 10.4% and 14.4%, respectively. Cash flow from operations is used to make planned capital investments in our business, to pursue acquisitions that meet our corporate objectives, to pay dividends, to pay principal and interest on our outstanding debt and to repurchase shares of our common stock. Accumulated cash balances are invested in high-quality, marketable short-term instruments.Our capital plan objectives are to support our operational needs and strategic plan for long-term growth while maintaining a low cost of capital. We use our financing, such as term loans and our Revolving Credit Facility, for general corporate purposes and to fund acquisitions. In addition, lines of credit are also used in certain of our markets to fund merchant settlement prior to receipt 33Table of Contentsof funds from the card network. We regularly evaluate our liquidity and capital position relative to cash requirements, and we may elect to raise additional funds in the future, through the issuance of debt, equity or otherwise.At September 30, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $990.6 million. Of this amount, we consider $431.3 million to be available for general purposes, of which approximately $60 million is undistributed foreign earnings considered to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Under the 2017 U.S. Tax Act, a company's foreign earnings accumulated under legacy tax laws are deemed repatriated, and the 2017 U.S. Tax Act generally eliminates U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries. The estimate of $60 million is our provisional position under the 2017 U.S. Tax Act. Settlement-related cash balances represent funds that we hold when the incoming amount from the card networks precedes the funding obligation to the merchant. Settlement-related cash balances are not restricted; however, these funds are generally paid out in satisfaction of settlement processing obligations the following day. Merchant Reserves serve as collateral to minimize contingent liabilities associated with any losses that may occur under the merchant agreement. While this cash is not restricted in its use, we believe that designating this cash to collateralize Merchant Reserves strengthens our fiduciary standing with our member sponsors and is in accordance with the guidelines set by the card networks. Funds held for customers and the corresponding liability that we record in customer deposits include amounts collected prior to remittance on our customers' behalf.Operating activities provided net cash of $661.0 million and $360.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. Fluctuations in working capital are affected primarily by timing of month-end and transaction volume, especially changes in settlement processing assets and liabilities. Changes in settlement processing assets and liabilities decreased operating cash flows by $58.7 million and $232.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.We used net cash in investing activities of $927.5 million and $710.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we invested approximately $700 million to acquire AdvancedMD. These investments include software and hardware to support the development of new technologies, continued consolidation and enhancement of our operating platforms and infrastructure to support our growing business. During the year ending December 31, 2018, we expect capital expenditures for property and equipment to approximate $210 million.Financing activities include borrowings and repayments made under our Credit Facility as well as borrowings and repayments made under specialized lines of credit to fund daily settlement activities. Our borrowing arrangements are further described below under "Long-Term Debt and Lines of Credit." Financing activities also include cash flows associated with common stock repurchase programs and share-based compensation programs as well as cash distributions made to noncontrolling interests and our shareholders. Cash flows from financing activities used net cash of $49.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily as a result of net borrowings under our Credit Facility, offset by funds used to repurchase shares of our common stock. Cash flows from financing activities provided net cash of $333.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, primarily as a result of net borrowings under our Credit Facility.Proceeds from long-term debt were $1,606.2 million and $1,713.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. Repayments of long-term debt were $1,468.5 million and $1,386.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. Proceeds from long-term debt include borrowings that we make from time-to-time under our Revolving Credit Facility. Repayments of long-term debt include repayments that we make from time-to-time under our Revolving Credit Facility as well as scheduled principal repayments made under our term loans. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repatriated $445.9 million from certain of our foreign subsidiaries and used the cash to reduce outstanding borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility.Because we often receive funding from the payment networks after we fund our merchants, we have specialized lines of credit in various markets where we do business to fund settlement. Activity under our settlement lines of credit is affected primarily by timing of month-end and transaction volume. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we had net borrowings of settlement lines of credit of $49.4 million and $77.4 million, respectively.34Table of ContentsWe make repurchases of our common stock mainly through open market repurchase plans and, at times, through accelerated share repurchase programs. As of September 30, 2018, we had $419.1 million of share repurchase authority remaining under a program authorized by the board of directors, announced on February 6, 2018, to repurchase shares of our common stock. Substantially all of the assets of our domestic subsidiaries are pledged as collateral under the Credit Facility.The borrowings outstanding under our Credit Facility as of September 30, 2018 reflect activities we completed earlier in 2018, including a reduction to the interest rate margins applicable to our Term A Loan, Term A-2 Loan, Term B-2 Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility, an extension of the maturity dates of the Term A Loan, Term A-2 Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility, and an increase in the total financing capacity under the Credit Facility to approximately $5.5 billion in June 2018. We used the proceeds from the Term B-4 Loan to pay down a portion of the balance outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility.The Credit Facility provides for an interest rate, at our election, of either LIBOR or a base rate, in each case plus a margin. As of September 30, 2018, the interest rates on the Term A Loan, the Term A-2 Loan and the Term B-2 Loan were 3.74%, 3.66% and 3.99%, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, the interest rate on the Revolving Credit Facility was 3.66%. In addition, we are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility at an applicable rate per annum ranging from 0.20% to 0.30% depending on our leverage ratio. The Term A Loan and the Term A-2 Loan mature, and the Revolving Credit Facility expires, on January 20, 2023. The Term B-2 Loan matures on April 22, 2023. The Term B-4 Loan matures on October 18, 2025. The Term A Loan and Term A-2 Loan principals must be repaid in quarterly installments in the amount of 0.625% of principal through June 2019, increasing to 1.25% of principal through June 2021, increasing to 1.875% of principal through June 2022 and increasing to 2.50% through December 2022, with the remaining principal balance due upon maturity` in January 2023. The Term B-2 Loan principal must be repaid in quarterly installments in the amount of 0.25% of principal through March 2023, with the remaining principal balance due upon maturity in April 2023. The Term B-4 Loan principal must be repaid in quarterly installments in the amount of 0.25% of principal through September 2025, with the remaining principal balance due upon maturity in October 2025.We may issue standby letters of credit of up to $100 million in the aggregate under the Revolving Credit Facility. Outstanding letters of credit under the Revolving Credit Facility reduce the amount of borrowings available to us under the Revolving Credit Facility. Borrowings available to us under the Revolving Credit Facility are further limited by the covenants described below under "Compliance with Covenants." The total available commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $636.4 million and $473.3 million, respectively.Settlement Lines of CreditIn various markets where we do business, we have specialized lines of credit, which are restricted for use in funding settlement. The settlement lines of credit generally have variable interest rates, are subject to annual review and are denominated in local currency but may, in some cases, facilitate borrowings in multiple currencies. For certain of our lines of credit, the available credit is increased by the amount of cash we have on deposit in specific accounts with the lender. Accordingly, the amount of the outstanding line of 35Table of Contentscredit may exceed the stated credit limit. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, a total of $68.5 million and $59.3 million, respectively, of cash on deposit was used to determine the available credit.As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, we had $685.9 million and $635.2 million outstanding under these lines of credit with additional capacity of $759.9 million as of September 30, 2018 to fund settlement. The weighted-average interest rate on these borrowings was 2.81% and 1.97% at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. Compliance with CovenantsThe Credit Facility Agreement contains customary affirmative and restrictive covenants, including, among others, financial covenants based on our leverage and interest coverage ratios as defined in the agreement. The interest coverage ratio is required to be no less than 3.25 to 1.00. The Credit Facility Agreement and settlement lines of credit also include various other covenants that are customary in such borrowings. The Credit Facility Agreement includes covenants, subject in each case to exceptions and qualifications that may restrict certain payments, including, in certain circumstances, repurchasing our common stock and paying cash dividends in excess of our current rate of $0.01 per share per quarter. The Credit Facility Agreement also includes customary events of default, the occurrence of which, following any applicable cure period, would permit the lenders to, among other things, declare the principal, accrued interest and other obligations to be immediately due and payable. See "Note 1—Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the notes to the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted.Forward-Looking StatementsInvestors are cautioned that some of the statements we use in this report contain forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the "safe-harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties and depend upon future events or conditions. Actual events or results might differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee you that our plans and expectations will be achieved. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and should not be relied upon as representing our plans and expectations as of any subsequent date. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of September 30, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in applicable rules and forms and are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in those reports is accumulated and communicated to management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting In September 2017, we completed the acquisition of ACTIVE Network, which is being integrated into our North America segment. As part of our ongoing integration activities, we are continuing to apply our controls and procedures to the ACTIVE Network business. In September 2018, we completed the acquisition of AdvancedMD. The assets, excluding goodwill, of AdvancedMD constituted approximately 2% of our total consolidated assets as of September 30, 2018. Revenues and operating income of AdvancedMD for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were not material to our consolidated financial statements.In accordance with our integration efforts, we plan to incorporate the operations of these acquired businesses into our internal control over financial reporting program within the time period provided by the applicable SEC rules and regulations. There were no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended September 30, 2018 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.37Table of ContentsPART II—OTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1—LEGAL PROCEEDINGSWe are party to a number of claims and lawsuits incidental to our business. In our opinion, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from the outcome of such matters, individually or in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows.ITEM 1A—RISK FACTORSThere have been no material changes from the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. As of September 30, 2018, the approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under our share repurchase program was $419.1 million. The authorizations by the board of directors do not expire, but could be revoked at any time. ++2.2 Amendment No. 1 to the Stock Purchase and Merger Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2017, by and among Global Payments Inc., Athlaction Topco, LLC, Vista Equity Partners Management, LLC, as Sellers’ Representative, and VEP Global Aggregator, LLC, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2. to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 6, 2017.