employeridentification no. Yes ý No oIndicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. Yes o No ýThe number of shares of HP common stock outstanding as of July 31, 2018 was 1,582,408,508 shares. Financial Information Item 1.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data4Item 2.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations43Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk54Item 4.Controls and Procedures54Part II. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, any projections of net revenue, margins, expenses, effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, deferred taxes, share repurchases, foreign currency exchange rates or other financial items; any projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or restructuring and other charges; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including, but not limited to, our sustainability goals, the execution of restructuring plans and any resulting cost savings, net revenue or profitability improvements; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief, including with respect to the timing and expected benefits of acquisitions and other business combination and investment transactions; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.3Table of Contents Part I. Financial InformationITEM 1. The interim financial information is unaudited but reflects all normal adjustments that are necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented. This interim information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 14, 2017. The Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet for October 31, 2017 was derived from audited financial statements.Principles of ConsolidationThe Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements include the accounts of HP and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which HP has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.ReclassificationsHP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure. HP reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis. See Note 2, “Segment Information”, for a further discussion of HP’s segment and business unit realignments.Use of EstimatesThe preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in HP’s Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Because the amendments only relate to the reclassification of the income tax effects of the TCJA, the underlying guidance that requires that the effect of a change in tax laws or rates be included in income from continuing operations is not affected. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for derivatives and hedging. The amendment improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better represent the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements and made certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP is currently evaluating the timing and impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for business combinations. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP currently expects to early adopt this guidance in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018. The guidance requires entities to present the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. As a result, entities will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. HP is required to adopt the guidance retrospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP will adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting for Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. The guidance requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs. It also requires modified retrospective transition with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP will adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP will adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses. Further, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses limited to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for leases. Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification. Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than twelve months. HP will adopt the new lease standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified retrospective approach. HP is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. The guidance primarily addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The amendments should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, with other amendments related specifically to equity securities without readily determinable fair values applied prospectively. Earlier adoption is permitted. HP will adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. HP expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. HP will adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and intends to apply the modified retrospective method. Based on the assessment, it is not anticipated that the adoption will have a material impact on the amount or timing of revenue recognized in the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. Segment Information HP is a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions and services. HP’s organizational structure is based on a number of factors that the chief operating decision maker uses to evaluate, view and run its business operations, which include, but are not limited to, customer base and homogeneity of products and technology. The segments are based on this organizational structure and information reviewed by HP’s chief operating decision maker to evaluate segment results. HP groups Commercial notebooks, Commercial desktops, Commercial services, Commercial mobility devices, Commercial detachables and convertibles, Workstations, retail point-of-sale systems and thin clients into Commercial PCs and Consumer notebooks, Consumer desktops, Consumer services and Consumer detachables into Consumer PCs when describing performance in these markets. Additionally, HP offers a range of services and solutions to enterprise and SMBs to help them manage the lifecycle of their PC and mobility installed base.•Consumer PCs are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on multi-media consumption, online browsing, gaming and light productivity.Personal Systems groups its global business capabilities into Notebooks, Desktops, Workstations and Other when reporting business performance.•Notebooks consists of Consumer notebooks, Commercial notebooks, Mobile workstations and Commercial mobility devices;•Desktops includes Consumer desktops, Commercial desktops, thin clients, and retail point-of-sale systems;•Workstations consists of Desktop Workstations and accessories; and•Other consists of Consumer and Commercial services as well as other Personal Systems capabilities.Printing provides Consumer and Commercial printer hardware, Supplies, solutions and services, as well as scanning devices. Printing is also focused on imaging solutions in the commercial and industrial markets. HP goes to market through its extensive channel network and directly with HP sales. Ongoing key initiatives include design and deployment of A3 products and solutions for the copier and multifunction printer market, printer security solutions, PageWide solutions and award-winning JetIntelligence LaserJet products.•Home Printing Solutions delivers innovative printing products and solutions for the home and home business or small and micro business customers utilizing both HP’s Ink and Laser technologies. HP derives the results of the business segments directly from its internal management reporting system.HP does not allocate certain operating expenses, which it manages at the corporate level, to its segments. These unallocated amounts include certain corporate governance costs and market-related retirement credits, stock-based compensation expense, restructuring and other charges, acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets, defined benefit plan settlement charges.RealignmentEffective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2018, HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure. The organizational change resulted in the transfer of long life consumables from Commercial to Supplies within the Printing segment. Certain revenues related to service arrangements, which are being eliminated for the purposes of reporting HP’s consolidated net revenue, have now been reclassified from Other to segments. HP has reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis. HP now expects approximately 4,500 to 5,000 employees to exit by the end of fiscal year 2019, subject to certain jurisdictional labor law requirements. HP estimates that it will now incur aggregate pre-tax charges of approximately $700 million relating to labor and non-labor actions. The Fiscal 2015 Plan was considered substantially complete as of October 31, 2016 and HP does not expect any further activity associated with this plan. The Fiscal 2012 Plan was considered substantially complete as of October 31, 2016 and HP does not expect any further activity associated with this plan.Other ChargesOther charges include non-recurring costs, including those as a result of Separation, and are distinct from ongoing operational costs. These costs primarily relate to information technology costs such as advisory, consulting and non-recurring labor costs. For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, HP incurred $12 million and $36 million of other charges, respectively. Defined Benefit Plans Non-U.S. Defined Benefit Plans Non-U.S. During the nine months ended July 31, 2018, HP contributed $21 million to its non-U.S. pension plans, paid $25 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified plan participants and paid $3 million to cover benefit claims under HP’s post-retirement benefit plans. HP’s pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and obligations depend on various assumptions. Differences between expected and actual returns on investments and changes in discount rates and other actuarial assumptions are reflected as unrecognized gains or losses, and such gains or losses are amortized to earnings in future periods. A deterioration in the funded status of a plan could result in a need for additional company contributions or an increase in net pension and post-retirement benefit costs in future periods. For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, HP granted only restricted stock units. HP uses the closing stock price on the grant date to estimate the fair value of service-based restricted stock units. HP did not grant any restricted stock units subject to performance-adjusted vesting conditions for the three months ended July 31, 2017. HP estimates the fair value of restricted stock units subject to performance-adjusted vesting conditions using a combination of the closing stock price on the grant date and a Monte Carlo simulation model. HP estimates the fair value of stock options subject to performance-contingent vesting conditions using a combination of a Monte Carlo simulation model and a lattice model, as these awards contain market conditions. HP did not grant any stock options for the three months ended July 31, 2018. The aggregate intrinsic value is the difference between HP’s closing stock price on the last trading day of the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options. The law includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system, including a federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21%, limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation, and the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. As a result of the TCJA, HP has calculated a blended U.S. federal statutory corporate income tax rate of 23% for the fiscal year ending October 31, 2018 and applied this rate in computing the first, second and third quarters’ income tax provision for fiscal year 2018. The blended U.S. federal statutory corporate income tax rate of 23% is the weighted daily average rate between the pre-enactment U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% applicable to HP’s 2018 fiscal year prior to the Effective Date and the post-enactment U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% applicable to the 2018 fiscal year thereafter. HP expects the U.S. federal statutory rate to be 21% for fiscal years beginning after October 31, 2018.Given the significance of the legislation, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. The impact of the TCJA may differ materially from this estimate due to changes in interpretations and assumptions HP has made, additional guidance that may be issued and actions HP may take as a result of the TCJA. The impacts of HP's estimates are described further below.While HP has not yet completed its analysis to the impact on its deferred tax balances, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 HP recorded provisional income tax expense of $1.2 billion related to the remeasurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities at the new statutory rate. In addition, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, due to additional information and a subsequent refinement of its analysis HP recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of its U.S. deferred tax assets that are expected to be realized at a lower rate by recording a valuation allowance. HP has computed a provisional deemed repatriation tax of approximately $3.1 billion, of which more than half is expected to be offset with existing and future tax attributes, reducing HP’s cash outlay. The U.S. Treasury Department recently issued proposed regulations related to this one-time mandatory deemed repatriation. While HP has not yet completed its analysis of these proposed regulations, it believes there will be no material changes to its provisional amount reported earlier in the year. Once the regulations are in effect or HP completes its evaluation of the potential impact of the proposed regulations, HP may update its provisional amount accordingly within the measurement period. Companies may elect to pay this tax over 8 years, and HP intends to make this election. Further, the transition tax is based, in part, on the amount of those earnings held in cash and other specified assets. No additional income taxes have been provided for any remaining undistributed foreign earnings not subject to the transition tax, or any additional outside basis difference inherent in these entities, as these amounts continue to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations.As a result of the deemed repatriation tax noted above, which is based on HP’s total post-1986 deferred foreign income, HP redetermined $5.5 billion of its U.S. deferred tax liability on those unremitted earnings with a provisional tax payable of $3.1 billion, as noted above. This resulted in a net benefit. This tax benefit is provisional as HP is still analyzing certain aspects of the legislation and refining calculations, which could potentially materially affect the measurement of these amounts.Upon further analysis of certain aspects of the TCJA and refinement of the calculations during the three months ended July 31, 2018, HP has made certain immaterial adjustments to its provisional estimate due to additional tax charges resulting from state legislation updates. During the nine months ended July 31, 2018, HP remeasured its deferred taxes to reflect the reduced rate that will likely apply when these deferred taxes are settled or realized in future periods. HP has not yet completed the accounting for the remeasurement of deferred taxes. To calculate the remeasurement of deferred taxes, HP has estimated when the existing deferred taxes will be settled or realized. The remeasurement of deferred taxes included in the financial statements will be subject to further revisions if the current estimates are different from the actual future operating results.In January 2018, the FASB released guidance on the accounting for tax on the Global Minimum Tax provisions of TCJA. The Global Minimum Tax provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. The guidance indicates that either accounting for deferred taxes related to Global Minimum Tax inclusions or to treat any taxes on Global Minimum Tax inclusions as period cost are both acceptable methods subject to an accounting policy election. HP is still evaluating whether to make a policy election to treat the Global Minimum Tax as a period cost or to provide U.S. deferred taxes on foreign temporary differences that are expected to generate Global Minimum Tax income when they reverse in future years. Since HP has a fiscal year ending October 31, it is subject to transitional tax rate rules. Therefore, a blended rate of 23% was computed as effective for the current fiscal year. The difference between the current fiscal year blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 23% and HP’s effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018 is primarily due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world and, for the nine month period only, transitional impacts of U.S. tax reform and resolution of various audits and tax litigation. For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, HP’s effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from HP’s operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world. HP has not provided U.S. taxes for all foreign earnings because HP plans to reinvest some of those earnings indefinitely outside the United States.During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, HP recorded $7.0 million and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes. As noted above, HP has not yet completed its analysis of the full impact of TCJA. However, for the three months ended January 31, 2018, HP recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in its deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for the remeasurement of its deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate. For the three months ended April 30, 2018, HP recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of its U.S. deferred tax assets that are expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance. For the three months ended July 31, 2018, HP recorded net tax benefits of $12 million related to acquisition costs offset by other charges of $5 million. The nine months ended July 31, 2018 also included tax benefits related to audit settlements of $1.5 billion, loss on debt extinguishment of $33 million, acquisition costs of $13 million and other tax benefits of $10 million. These tax benefits were offset by uncertain tax position charges of $56 million. During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, HP recorded excess tax benefits of $2 million and $36 million, respectively, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units.During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, HP recorded $27 million and $31 million, respectively, of net tax benefit related to discrete items in the provision for taxes for continuing operations. These amounts included a tax benefit of $14 million and $45 million related to restructuring and other charges, and a tax benefit of $15 million and $28 million related to acquisition-related charges, offset by uncertain tax position charges of $19 million and $25 million, for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, respectively. The three months and nine months ended July 31, 2017 included a net tax benefit of $12 million related to provision to return adjustments due to the filing of HP’s U.S. Federal tax return. The nine months ended July 31, 2017 also included a tax charge of $26 million related to state provision to return adjustments.Uncertain Tax PositionsAs of July 31, 2018, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $8.0 billion, of which up to $1.7 billion would affect HP’s effective tax rate if realized. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $2.8 billion for the nine months ended July 31, 2018, primarily related to the resolution of various audits. HP recognizes interest income from favorable settlements and interest expense and penalties accrued on unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for taxes in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings. As of July 31, 2018, HP had accrued $149 million for interest and penalties.HP engages in continuous discussions and negotiations with taxing authorities regarding tax matters in various jurisdictions. HP expects to complete resolution of certain tax years with various tax authorities within the next 12 months. It is also possible that other federal, foreign and state tax issues may be concluded within the next 12 months. HP believes it is reasonably possible that its existing unrecognized tax benefits may be reduced by up to $6.4 billion within the next 12 months. These unrecognized tax benefits have associated gain contingencies which will be settled in the same period resulting in a net release of $822 million. HP is subject to income tax in the United States and approximately 58 other countries and is subject to routine corporate income tax audits in many of these jurisdictions. In addition, HP is subject to numerous ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. These financing arrangements, which in certain circumstances may contain partial recourse, result in a transfer of HP’s receivables and risk to the third party. As these transfers qualify as true sales under the applicable accounting guidance, the receivables are derecognized from the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets upon transfer, and HP receives a payment for the receivables from the third party within a mutually agreed upon time period. For arrangements involving an element of recourse, the recourse obligation is measured using market data from the similar transactions and reported as a current liability in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets. The recourse obligations as of July 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017 were not material. See Note 14, “Guarantees, Indemnifications and Warranties” for further information. Observable inputs are developed using market data such as publicly available information and reflect the assumptions market participants would use, while unobservable inputs are developed using the best information available about the assumptions market participants would use. HP values cash equivalents and equity investments using quoted market prices, alternative pricing sources, including net asset value, or models utilizing market observable inputs. HP uses industry standard valuation models to measure fair value. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to present value using market-based observable inputs, including interest rate curves, HP and counterparty credit risk, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies and interest rates. The portion of HP’s debt that is hedged is reflected in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets as an amount equal to the debt’s carrying amount and a fair value adjustment representing changes in the fair value of the hedged debt obligations arising from movements in benchmark interest rates. The fair value of HP’s short- and long-term debt was $7.3 billion as of July 31, 2018, compared to its carrying amount of $7.2 billion at that date. The fair value of HP’s short- and long-term debt was $8.1 billion as of October 31, 2017, compared to its carrying value of $7.8 billion at that date. As of July 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017, the carrying amount of cash equivalents approximated fair value due to the short period of time to maturity. As part of its risk management strategy, HP uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, interest rate swaps, total return swaps and, at times, option contracts to hedge certain foreign currency, interest rate and, to a lesser extent, equity exposures. HP may designate its derivative contracts as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges and classifies the cash flows with the activities that correspond to the underlying hedged items. Additionally, for derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, HP categorizes those economic hedges as other derivatives. HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets. As a result of its use of derivative instruments, HP is exposed to the risk that its counterparties will fail to meet their contractual obligations. Master netting agreements mitigate credit exposure to counterparties by permitting HP to net amounts due from HP to counterparty against amounts due to HP from the same counterparty under certain conditions. To further limit credit risk, HP has collateral security agreements that allow HP to hold collateral from, or require HP to post collateral to, counterparties when aggregate derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds which are generally based on the credit ratings of HP and its counterparties. If HP’s or the counterparty’s credit rating falls below a specified credit rating, either party has the right to request full collateralization of the derivatives’ net liability position. The fair value of derivatives with credit contingent features in a net liability position was $108 million and $258 million as of July 31, 2018 and as of October 31, 2017, respectively, all of which were fully collateralized within two business days.Under HP’s derivative contracts, the counterparty can terminate all outstanding trades following a covered change of control event affecting HP that results in the surviving entity being rated below a specified credit rating. HP’s foreign currency cash flow hedges mature generally within twelve months. However, hedges related to longer-term procurement arrangements extend several years and forward contracts associated with intercompany loans extend for the duration of the loan term, which typically range from two to five years.For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, HP initially records changes in fair value for the effective portion of the derivative instrument in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ deficit on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. HP reports the effective portion of its cash flow hedges in the same financial statement line item as the hedged transaction.Other DerivativesOther derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist primarily of forward contracts used to hedge foreign currency-denominated balance sheet exposures. HP uses total return swaps to hedge its executive deferred compensation plan liability. For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, HP recognizes changes in fair value of the derivative instrument in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period of change.Hedge EffectivenessFor interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged item with the change in fair value of the derivative. For foreign currency options and forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative change in fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, both of which are based on forward rates. Amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the period they arise.As of July 31, 2018 and July 31, 2017, no portion of the hedging instruments’ gain or loss was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for fair value and cash flow hedges. Offsetting of Derivative InstrumentsHP recognizes all derivative instruments on a gross basis in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets. HP does not offset the fair value of its derivative instruments against the fair value of cash collateral posted under its collateral security agreements. Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding 4.650% Notes consented to the Proposed Amendments, and as a result, a supplemental indenture was executed on March 26, 2018 to effect the Proposed Amendments. This extinguishment of debt resulted in a loss of $126 million, which was recorded as "Interest and other, net" on the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings during the nine months ended July 31, 2018. Commercial PaperOn November 1, 2015, HP’s Board of Directors authorized HP to borrow up to a total outstanding principal balance of $4.0 billion, or the equivalent in foreign currencies, for the use and benefit of HP and HP’s subsidiaries, by the issuance of commercial paper or through the execution of promissory notes, loan agreements, letters of credit, agreements for lines of credit or overdraft facilities. HP increased the issuance authorization under its commercial paper program from $4.0 billion to $6.0 billion in November 2017. As of July 31, 2018, HP maintained two commercial paper programs. HP’s U.S. program provides for the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated commercial paper up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $6.0 billion. The combined aggregate principal amount of commercial paper outstanding under those programs at any one time cannot exceed the $6.0 billion authorized by HP’s Board of Directors.Credit FacilityAs of July 31, 2018, HP maintains a $4.0 billion, senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility to support the issuance of commercial paper or for general corporate purposes. Commitments under the revolving credit facility will be available until March 30, 2023. Commitment fees, interest rates and other terms of borrowing under the credit facilities vary based on HP’s external credit ratings. As of July 31, 2018, HP was in compliance with the financial covenants in the credit agreement governing the revolving credit facility.In December 2017, HP also entered into an additional revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that provided HP with $1.5 billion of available borrowings until November 30, 2018. During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, HP executed share repurchases of 31 million shares and 86 million shares and settled total shares for $0.7 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, HP executed share repurchases of 16 million shares and 55 million shares and settled total shares for $0.3 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively. Share repurchases executed during the three months ended July 31, 2018 and July 31, 2017 included 0.8 million and 0.4 million shares settled in August 2018 and August 2017, respectively.The shares repurchased during the nine months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017 were all open market repurchase transactions. On June 19, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors authorized an additional $4.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock. The assumed proceeds of a stock option include the sum of its exercise price, and average unrecognized compensation cost. HP accrues a liability when management believes that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. HP believes it has recorded adequate provisions for any such matters and, as of July 31, 2018, it was not reasonably possible that a material loss had been incurred in excess of the amounts recognized in HP’s financial statements. HP reviews these matters at least quarterly and adjusts its accruals to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information and events pertaining to a particular case. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, HP shares responsibility with Hewlett Packard Enterprise for certain matters, as indicated below, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in whole or in part with respect to certain matters. Based on its experience, HP believes that any damage amounts claimed in the specific matters discussed below are not a meaningful indicator of HP’s potential liability. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. However, HP believes it has valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against it. Nevertheless, cash flows or results of operations could be materially affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these contingencies.Litigation, Proceedings and InvestigationsCopyright Levies. The levies are generally based upon the number of products sold and the per-product amounts of the levies, which vary. Some European countries that do not yet have levies on digital devices are expected to implement similar legislation to enable them to extend existing levy schemes, while other European countries have phased out levies or are expected to limit the scope of levy schemes and applicability in the digital hardware environment, particularly with respect to sales to business users. HP, other companies and various industry associations have opposed the extension of levies to the digital environment and have advocated alternative models of compensation to rights holders.Reprobel, a collecting society administering the remuneration for reprography to Belgian copyright holders, requested by extrajudicial means that HP amend certain copyright levy declarations submitted for inkjet MFDs sold in Belgium from January 2005 to December 2009 to enable it to collect copyright levies calculated based on the generally higher copying speed when the MFDs are operated in draft print mode rather than when operated in normal print mode. On November 12, 2015, the CJEU published its judgment providing that a national legislation such as the Belgian one at issue in the main proceedings is incompatible with EU law on multiple legal points, as argued by HP, and returned the proceedings to the referring court. HP appealed this decision before the Belgian Supreme Court on January 18, 2018. Based on industry opposition to the extension of levies to digital products, HP’s assessments of the merits of various proceedings and HP’s estimates of the number of units impacted and the amounts of the levies, HP has accrued amounts that it believes are adequate to address the ongoing disputes. Hewlett-Packard Company v. Oracle Corporation. HP asserted, among other things, that Oracle’s actions breached the contract that was signed by the parties as part of the settlement of the litigation relating to Oracle’s hiring of Mark Hurd. The matter eventually progressed to trial, which was bifurcated into two phases. HP prevailed in the first phase of the trial, in which the court ruled that the contract at issue required Oracle to continue to offer its software products on HP’s Itanium-based servers for as long as HP decided to sell such servers. The second phase of the trial was then postponed by Oracle’s appeal of the trial court’s denial of Oracle’s “anti-SLAPP” motion, in which Oracle argued that HP’s damages claim infringed on Oracle’s First Amendment rights. On August 27, 2015, the California Court of Appeals rejected Oracle’s appeal. The matter was remanded to the trial court for the second phase of the trial, which began on May 23, 2016 and was submitted to the jury on June 29, 2016. On June 30, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of HP, awarding HP approximately $3.0 billion in damages, which included approximately $1.7 billion for past lost profits and $1.3 billion for future lost profits. On October 20, 2016, the court entered judgment for HP for this amount with interest accruing until the judgment is paid. Oracle’s motion for a new trial was denied on December 19, 2016, and Oracle filed its notice of appeal from the trial court’s judgment on January 17, 2017. On February 2, 2017, HP filed a notice of cross-appeal challenging the trial court’s denial of prejudgment interest. The schedule for appellate briefing and argument has not yet been established. HP expects that the appeals process could take several years to complete. Litigation is unpredictable, and there can be no assurance that HP will recover damages, or that any award of damages will be for the amount awarded by the jury’s verdict. The amount ultimately awarded, if any, would be recorded in the period received. No adjustment has been recorded in the financial statements in relation to this potential award. Pursuant to the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share equally in any recovery from Oracle once Hewlett Packard Enterprise has been reimbursed for all costs incurred in the prosecution of the action prior to the Separation.Forsyth, et al. v. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Plaintiffs also seek to represent a Rule 23 class under California law comprised of all persons 40 years or older employed by defendants in the state of California and terminated pursuant to a WFR plan on or after May 23, 2012. Following a partial motion to dismiss, a motion to strike and a motion to compel arbitration that the defendants filed in November 2016, the plaintiffs amended their complaint. New plaintiffs were added, but the plaintiffs agreed that the class period for the nationwide collective action should be shortened and now starts on December 9, 2014. On January 30, 2017, the defendants filed another partial motion to dismiss and motions to compel arbitration as to several of the plaintiffs. On March 20, 2017, the defendants filed additional motions to compel arbitration as to a number of the opt-in plaintiffs. On November 30, 2017, three named plaintiffs and twelve opt-in plaintiffs filed a single arbitration demand. On February 6, 2018, the Court granted the motion to stay and denied the motion to enjoin. v. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise. This putative nationwide class action was filed on July 24, 2017 in federal district court in San Jose, California. The plaintiffs purport to bring the lawsuit on behalf of themselves and other similarly situated African-Americans and individuals over the age of forty. The plaintiffs allege that the defendants engaged in a pattern and practice of racial and age discrimination in lay-offs and promotions. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on September 29, 2017. On January 12, 2018, the defendants moved to transfer the matter to the federal district court in the Northern District of Georgia. The defendants also moved to dismiss the claims on various grounds and to strike certain aspects of the proposed class definition. The Court dismissed the action on the basis of improper venue. On July 23, 2018, the plaintiffs refiled the case in the Northern District of Georgia. On August 9, 2018, the plaintiffs also filed a notice of appeal of the dismissal order with the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence Proceedings. Prior to the issuance of the show cause notices, HP India deposited approximately $16 million with the DRI and agreed to post a provisional bond in exchange for the DRI’s agreement to not seize HP India products and spare parts and to not interrupt the transaction of business by HP India.On April 11, 2012, the Bangalore Commissioner of Customs issued an order on the products-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and the named individuals of approximately $386 million, of which HP India had already deposited $9 million. On December 11, 2012, HP India voluntarily deposited an additional $10 million in connection with the products-related show cause notice. The differential duty demand is subject to interest. On April 20, 2012, the Commissioner issued an order on the parts-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and certain of the named individuals of approximately $17 million, of which HP India had already deposited $7 million. After the order, HP India deposited an additional $3 million in connection with the parts-related show cause notice so as to avoid certain penalties.HP India filed appeals of the Commissioner’s orders before the Customs Tribunal along with applications for waiver of the pre-deposit of remaining demand amounts as a condition for hearing the appeals. The Customs Department has also filed cross-appeals before the Customs Tribunal. On January 24, 2013, the Customs Tribunal ordered HP India to deposit an additional $24 million against the products order, which HP India deposited in March 2013. The Customs Tribunal did not order any additional deposit to be made under the parts order. In December 2013, HP India filed applications before the Customs Tribunal seeking early hearing of the appeals as well as an extension of the stay of deposit as to HP India and the individuals already granted until final disposition of the appeals. On February 7, 2014, the application for extension of the stay of deposit was granted by the Customs Tribunal until disposal of the appeals. On October 27, 2014, the Customs Tribunal commenced hearings on the cross-appeals of the Commissioner’s orders. The Customs Tribunal rejected HP India’s request to remand the matter to the Commissioner on procedural grounds. The hearings scheduled to reconvene on April 6, 2015 and again on November 3, 2015 and April 11, 2016 were canceled at the request of the Customs Tribunal. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Hewlett Packard Enterprise has agreed to indemnify HP in part, based on the extent to which any liability arises from the products and spare parts of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s businesses. Class Actions re Authentication of SuppliesFive purported consumer class actions were filed against HP, arising out of the supplies authentication protocol in certain OfficeJet printers. This authentication protocol rejects some third-party ink cartridges that use non-HP security chips. Two of the cases were dismissed, and the remaining cases were consolidated in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, captioned In re HP Printer Firmware Update Litigation. Bus. Bus. Bus. Civ. Code § 1750, et seq. Bus. Code Ann. § 17.01, et seq. Code Ann. § 19.86.010, et seq. § 1030, et seq. On March 29, 2018, the court granted in part and denied in part HP’s motion to dismiss. The court also dismissed in part the plaintiffs’ fraud-based claims under the California consumer protection statutes and computer hacking claims under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and California Computer Data Access and Fraud Act. The court denied HP’s motion to dismiss with respect to the plaintiffs’ claim for trespass to chattels and claim under the “unlawful” prong of the California unfair competition statute. The court granted the plaintiffs leave to amend on all of the dismissed claims, except the California Computer Data Access and Fraud Act claim to the extent it was based on two specific subsections of that statute. The parties have since reached a settlement in principle. On July 13, 2018, the court vacated the remaining dates on the case schedule and ordered that the plaintiffs file their motion for preliminary approval of the class settlement within 60 days.Autonomy-Related Legal MattersInvestigations. On January 19, 2015, the U.K. Serious Fraud Office notified HP that it was closing its investigation and had decided to cede jurisdiction of the investigation to the U.S. authorities. On November 14, 2016, the DOJ announced that a federal grand jury indicted Sushovan Hussain, the former CFO of Autonomy. Mr. Hussain was charged with conspiracy to commit wire fraud, securities fraud, and multiple counts of wire fraud. The indictment alleged that Mr. Hussain engaged in a scheme to defraud purchasers and sellers of securities of Autonomy and HP about the true performance of Autonomy’s business, its financial condition, and its prospects for growth. A jury trial commenced on February 26, 2018. On April 30, 2018, the jury found Mr. Hussain guilty of all charges against him. On November 15, 2016, the SEC announced that Stouffer Egan, the former CEO of Autonomy’s U.S.-based operations, settled charges relating to his participation in an accounting scheme to meet internal sales targets and analyst revenue expectations. HP is continuing to cooperate with the ongoing enforcement actions.Autonomy Corporation Limited v. Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain. The Particulars of Claim seek damages in excess of $5 billion from Messrs. Lynch and Hussain for breach of their fiduciary duties by causing Autonomy group companies to engage in improper transactions and accounting practices. On October 1, 2015, Messrs. Lynch and Hussain filed their defenses. Mr. Lynch also filed a counterclaim against Autonomy Corporation Limited seeking $160 million in damages, among other things, for alleged misstatements regarding Lynch. The Hewlett Packard Enterprise subsidiary claimants filed their replies to the defenses and the asserted counter-claim on March 11, 2016. The parties are actively engaged in the disclosure process. A six-month trial is scheduled to begin on March 25, 2019. EnvironmentalHP’s operations and products are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of HP’s products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of those products. In particular, HP faces increasing complexity in its product design and procurement operations as it adjusts to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of its products, their safe use, and the energy consumption associated with those products, including requirements relating to climate change. HP could incur substantial costs, its products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and it could face other sanctions, if it were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if its products become noncompliant with environmental laws. HP’s potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims and clean-up costs. HP is also conducting environmental investigations or remediations at several current or former operating sites pursuant to administrative orders or consent agreements with state environmental agencies.The separation and distribution agreement includes provisions that provide for the allocation of environmental liabilities between HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise including certain remediation obligations; responsibilities arising from the chemical and materials composition of their respective products, their safe use and their energy consumption; obligations under product take back legislation that addresses the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products; and other environmental matters. HP will generally be responsible for environmental liabilities related to the properties and other assets, including products, allocated to HP under the separation and distribution agreement and other ancillary agreements. Under these agreements, HP will indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise for liabilities for specified ongoing remediation projects, subject to certain limitations, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has a payment obligation for a specified portion of the cost of those remediation projects. In addition, HP will share with Hewlett Packard Enterprise other environmental liabilities as set forth in the separation and distribution agreement. Some of those guarantees may be backed by standby letters of credit or surety bonds. In general, HP would be obligated to perform over the term of the guarantee in the event a specified triggering event occurs as defined by the guarantee. HP believes the likelihood of having to perform under a material guarantee is remote.Cross-Indemnifications with Hewlett Packard EnterpriseUnder the separation and distribution agreement, HP agreed to indemnify Hewlett Packard Enterprise, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to HP as part of the Separation. Hewlett Packard Enterprise similarly agreed to indemnify HP, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise as part of the Separation. The TMA provides that HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise will share certain pre-Separation income tax liabilities. In addition, if the distribution of Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s common shares to the HP stockholders is determined to be taxable, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP would share the tax liability equally, unless the taxability of the distribution is the direct result of action taken by either Hewlett Packard Enterprise or HP subsequent to the distribution, in which case the party causing the distribution to be taxable would be responsible for any taxes imposed on the distribution.IndemnificationsIn the ordinary course of business, HP enters into contractual arrangements under which HP may agree to indemnify a third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of HP or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for example, litigation or claims relating to past performance. HP also provides indemnifications to certain vendors and customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the vendors’ and customers’ use of HP’s software products and services and certain other matters. Some indemnifications may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, payments made related to these indemnifications have been immaterial.HP records tax indemnification receivables from various third parties for certain tax liabilities that HP is jointly and severally liable for, but for which it is indemnified by those same third parties under existing legal agreements. The actual amount that the third parties pay may be obligated to pay HP could vary depending on the outcome of certain unresolved tax matters, which may not be resolved for several years. With this acquisition, HP now offers the industry’s strongest portfolio of A3 multifunction printers that deliver the simplicity of printers with the high performance of copiers. The fully integrated portfolio, including next-generation PageWide technologies, offers opportunities to grow managed print and document services as sales models shift from transactional to contractual. HP reports the financial results of the above business in the Printing segment.The table below presents the preliminary purchase price allocation for HP's acquisition as of November 1, 2017 and reflects various preliminary fair value estimates and analyses, including preliminary work performed by third-party valuation specialists, which are subject to change within the measurement period as valuations are finalized. The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the fair values of certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, the valuation of intangible assets acquired, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes, and residual goodwill. HP expects to continue to obtain information to assist it in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period. A discussion of accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results.•Results of Operations. An analysis of our operations financial results comparing the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018 to the prior-year period. A discussion of the results of operations is followed by a more detailed discussion of the results of operations by segment.•Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.•Contractual and Other Obligations. An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.The discussion of financial condition and results of our operations that follows provides information that will assist the reader in understanding our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document.OVERVIEWWe are a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions, and services. We sell to individual consumers, SMBs and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health, and education sectors. The Personal Systems segment offers Commercial and Consumer desktop and notebook PCs, workstations, thin clients, Commercial mobility devices, retail point-of-sale systems, displays and other related accessories, software, support, and services for the commercial and consumer markets. The Printing segment provides Consumer and Commercial printer hardware, Supplies, solutions and services, as well as scanning devices. Corporate Investments include HP Labs and certain business incubation projects.•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes. Additionally, we are investing in premium form factors such as convertible notebooks and detachable notebooks, in order to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices. The beginning of a market shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Device as a Service. We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.•In Printing, our strategic focus is on business printing, a shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace. Business printing includes delivering solutions to SMBs and enterprise customers, such as multi-function and PageWide printers, including our JetIntelligence lineup of LaserJet printers. The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Managed Print Services and Instant Ink, which presents strong after-market supplies opportunities. In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings. We plan to continue to focus on shifting the mix in the installed base to higher value units and expanding our innovative Ink, Laser, Graphics and 3D printing programs. We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models. Our focus is on placing higher value printer units which offer strong annuity of toner and ink, the design and deployment of A3 products and solutions, accelerating growth in Graphic solutions and 3D printing.We continue to experience challenges that are representative of trends and uncertainties that may affect our business and results of operations. A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. Our primary competitors are exerting competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution.•In Personal Systems, we face challenges with the uncertainty of the market’s ability to absorb increased prices and industry component availability.•In Printing, we are seeing signs of stabilization of demand in consumer and commercial markets, but are still experiencing an overall competitive pricing environment. We obtain a number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. For instance, we source the majority of our A4 and a portion of our A3 portfolio of laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges from Canon. Any decision by either party to not renew our agreement with Canon or to limit or reduce the scope of the agreement could adversely affect our net revenue from LaserJet products; however, we have a long-standing business relationship with Canon and anticipate renewal of this agreement. We are also seeing increases in commodity costs impacting our bill of materials.Our business and financial performance also depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Accordingly, we face global macroeconomic challenges, uncertainty in the markets, volatility in exchange rates, weaker macroeconomic conditions and evolving dynamics in the global trade environment. The impact of these and other global macroeconomic challenges on our business cannot be known at this time.To address these challenges, we continue to pursue innovation with a view towards developing new products and services aligned with generating market demand and meeting the needs of our customers and partners. In addition, we need to continue to improve our operations, with a particular focus on enhancing our end-to-end processes and efficiencies. We also need to continue to optimize our sales coverage models, align our sales incentives with our strategic goals, improve channel execution, strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, and develop and capitalize on market opportunities. We typically experience higher net revenues in our first and fourth quarters compared to other quarters in our fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent liabilities. The TCJA lowered our U.S. statutory federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, while also imposing a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings. The measurement period ends when a company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information necessary to finalize its accounting, but cannot extend beyond one year. The final impact of the TCJA may differ from the provisional estimates due to changes in interpretations of the TCJA, legislative action to address questions that arise because of the TCJA, changes in accounting standard for income taxes and related interpretations in response to the TCJA, and updates or changes to estimates used in the provisional amounts. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to the $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by a $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and a $1.2 billion net expense for the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate and for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to realization on U.S. deferred taxes that are expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount. Resolution of the provisional estimates of the TCJA effects that are different from the assumptions made by us could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results.Prior to the enactment of the TCJA, our effective tax rate included the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which we have not provided U.S. federal taxes because we had planned to reinvest such earnings indefinitely outside the United States. We plan distributions of foreign earnings based on projected cash flow needs as well as the working capital and long-term investment requirements of our foreign subsidiaries and our domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount we expect to indefinitely invest outside the United States and the amounts we expect to distribute to the United States and provide the U.S. federal taxes due on amounts expected to be distributed to the United States. Further, as a result of certain employment actions and capital investments we have undertaken, income from manufacturing activities in certain jurisdictions is subject to reduced tax rates and, in some cases, is wholly exempt from taxes for fiscal years through 2027. Material changes in our estimates of cash, working capital and long-term investment requirements in the various jurisdictions in which we do business could impact how future earnings are repatriated to the United States, and our related future effective tax rate. The effects of the TCJA related to these policies are referenced and discussed in detail in Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTSFor a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements see Note 1, “Basis of Presentation”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.RESULTS OF OPERATIONSRevenue from our international operations has historically represented, and we expect will continue to represent, a majority of our overall net revenue. As a result, our net revenue growth has been impacted, and we expect it will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to provide a framework for assessing performance excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we supplement the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue with the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a constant currency basis, which excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange fluctuations calculated by translating current period revenues using monthly average exchange rates from the comparative period and hedging activities from the prior-year period and does not adjust for any repricing or demand impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This information is provided so that net revenue can be viewed with and without the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which is consistent with how management evaluates our net revenue results and trends, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results. The constant currency measures are provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a GAAP basis. U.S. net revenue increased 5.1% to $5.4 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 15.9% to $9.2 billion. U.S. net revenue increased 6.4% to $15.0 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 16.9% to $28.1 billion. The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops, Commercial Printing Hardware and Supplies revenue and favorable foreign currency impacts.A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment net revenue is included in “Segment Information” below.Gross MarginFor the three months ended July 31, 2018, our gross margin decreased by 0.2 percentage points as compared to the prior-year period. The increase for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 is primarily due to reversal of indemnification receivables from Hewlett Packard Enterprise pertaining to various audit settlements, and loss on extinguishment of debt. Since we have a fiscal year ending October 31, we are subject to transitional tax rate rules. Therefore, a blended rate of 23% was computed as effective for the current fiscal year. The difference between the current fiscal year blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 23% and our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018 is primarily due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world and, for the nine month period only, transitional impacts of U.S. tax reform and resolution of various audits and tax litigation. For the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017 our effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower-tax jurisdictions throughout the world. We have not provided U.S. taxes for all foreign earnings because we plan to reinvest some of those earnings indefinitely outside the United States.During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, we recorded $7.0 million and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes. As discussed in the Note 6 “Taxes on Earnings” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, we have not yet completed our analysis of the full impact of TCJA. However, for the three months January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for the revaluation of our deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate. For the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of our U.S. deferred taxes that are expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance. For the three months ended July 31, 2018, we recorded net tax benefits of $12 million related to acquisition costs offset by other charges of $5 million. The nine months ended July 31, 2018 also included tax benefits related to audit settlements of $1.5 billion, loss on debt extinguishment of $33 million, acquisition costs of $13 million and other tax benefits of $10 million. These tax benefits were offset by uncertain tax position charges of $56 million. During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, we recorded excess tax benefits of $2 million and $36 million, respectively, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units.During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, we recorded $27 million and $31 million, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes for continuing operations. These amounts included a tax benefit of $14 million and $45 million related to restructuring and other charges, and a tax benefit of $15 million and $28 million related to acquisition-related charges, offset by uncertain tax position charges of $19 million and $25 million, for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, respectively. The three and nine months ended July 31, 2017 also included a tax benefit of $12 million related to provision to return adjustments due to the filing of it’s U.S. Federal tax return. The nine months ended July 31, 2017 also included a tax charge of $26 million related to state provision to return adjustments.Segment InformationA description of the products and services for each segment can be found in Note 2, “Segment Information” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Future changes to this organizational structure may result in changes to the segments disclosed.Realignment Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2018, HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure. Certain revenues related to service arrangements, which are being eliminated for the purposes of reporting HP’s consolidated net revenue, have now been reclassified from Other to segments. HP has reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis. The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks, Desktops and favorable foreign currency impacts. The net revenue increase was driven by a 6.3% and 5.4% increase in unit volume and ASPs, respectively, as compared to the prior-year period. The increase in unit volume was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops. The increase in ASPs was due to favorable foreign currency impacts and positive mix shifts.Consumer revenue increased 10.2% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs. Commercial revenue increased 12.9% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations.Net revenue increased 11.8% in Desktops, 12.5% in Notebooks and 10.9% in Workstations as compared to the prior-year period.Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.2 percentage points for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in gross margin partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher ASPs, partially offset by an increase in logistics and commodity costs. The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops and favorable foreign currency impacts. The net revenue increase was driven by a 6.8% and 6.5% increase in unit volume and ASPs, respectively, as compared to the prior-year period. The increase in unit volume was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops. The increase in ASPs was due to favorable pricing rate, foreign currency impacts and positive mix shifts.Consumer revenue increased 11.2% for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs. Commercial revenue increased 15.1% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations. Net revenue for Supplies increased 8.3% as compared to the prior-year period, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business. Printer unit volume increased 12.1% while ASPs was flat as compared to the prior-year period. The increase in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit increases in Commercial Hardware, including the Samsung-branded printers. Printer ASPs remained flat due to favorable foreign currency offset by dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 24.5% as compared to the prior-year period, including revenue from Samsung-branded printers, LaserJet and PageWide printers. The unit volume in Commercial Hardware increased primarily due to Samsung-branded printers. The ASP decrease in Commercial Hardware was primarily due to dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products. Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 3.5% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 2.1% increase in printer unit volume, and nominal increase in ASPs. The unit volume increase was primarily driven by the LaserJet and InkJet Home business. The ASPs increase was primarily due to favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by mix shift to low-end printers.Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 1.3 percentage points for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a decline in overall gross margin and an increase in operating expenses. The gross margin decrease was primarily driven by dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end products and increase in commodity costs. The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by increase in Supplies and Hardware revenue, and favorable foreign currency impacts. Net revenue for Supplies increased by 8.8% as compared to the prior-year period, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business. Printer unit volume increased 13.2% while ASPs increased 2.5% as compared to the prior-year period. The increase in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit increases in Commercial and Consumer Hardware, including the Samsung-branded printers. Printer ASPs increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by the dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased 26.2% as compared to the prior-year period, including revenue from Samsung-branded printers, LaserJet and PageWide printers. The unit volume in Commercial Hardware increased primarily due to Samsung-branded printers. The ASP decrease in Commercial Hardware was primarily due to the dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 5.8% as compared to the prior-year period due to a 4.2% increase in printer unit volume and a 1.9% increase in ASPs. The unit volume increase was primarily driven by InkJet and LaserJet Home business. The ASP increase was primarily driven by favorable foreign currency impacts.Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 1.0 percentage points for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period primarily due to an increase in operating expenses. The gross margin remained flat due to operational improvements and favorable foreign currency impacts, offset by the dilution impact of Samsung-branded low-end products. Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.Corporate InvestmentsThe loss from operations in Corporate Investments for the three months and nine months ended July 31, 2018 was primarily due to expenses associated with our incubation projects.LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCESWe use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity. We believe that internally generated cash flows are generally sufficient to support our operating businesses, capital expenditures, restructuring activities, maturing debt, income tax payments and the payment of stockholder dividends, in addition to investments and share repurchases. We are able to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions. While our access to capital markets may be constrained and our cost of borrowing may increase under certain business, market and economic conditions, our access to a variety of funding sources to meet our liquidity needs is designed to facilitate continued access to capital resources under all such conditions. Our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 and the market risks identified in the section entitled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 3 of Part I of this report, which are incorporated herein by reference.Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with the majority of those amounts held outside of the United States. We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed. The transaction is expected to close by the end of calendar year 2018, pending regulatory review and other customary closing conditions.Amounts held outside of the United States are generally utilized to support non-U.S. liquidity needs, and may from time to time be distributed to the United States. The TCJA made significant changes to the U.S. tax law, including a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings. The payments associated with this one-time transition tax will be paid over eight years beginning 2019. We expect a significant portion of the cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries will no longer be subject to U.S. income tax consequences upon a subsequent repatriation to the United States as a result of the transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings. However, a portion of this cash may still be subject to foreign income tax or withholding tax consequences upon repatriation. Items which may cause the cash conversion cycle in a particular period to differ from a long-term sustainable rate include, but are not limited to, changes in business mix, changes in payment terms, extent of receivables factoring, seasonal trends and the timing of revenue recognition and inventory purchases within the period.DSO measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average net revenue. The decrease in DSO was primarily due to favorable foreign currency impacts.DOS measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DOS is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average cost of revenue. The increase in DOS was primarily due to leveraging our balance sheet, particularly through strategic inventory investments, in transit and sea shipments.DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. DPO is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average cost of revenue. Outstanding borrowings decreased to $7.2 billion as of July 31, 2018 as compared to $7.8 billion as of October 31, 2017, bearing weighted-average interest rates of 4.0% for July 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017, primarily due to the payment for the repurchase of approximately $1.85 billion in aggregate principal amount of U.S. Dollar Global Notes, partially offset by issuance of commercial paper of $1.2 billion.Our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the period and reflects the impact of interest rate swaps. For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 9, “Financial Instruments”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.As of July 31, 2018, we maintain a senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility with aggregate lending commitments of $4.0 billion, which will be available until March 30, 2023 and is primarily to support the issuance of commercial paper. Funds borrowed under this revolving credit facility may also be used for general corporate purposes. As of July 31, 2018, we had $2.1 billion of commercial paper outstanding.We increased our issuance authorization under our commercial paper program from $4.0 billion to $6.0 billion in November 2017. In December 2017, we also entered into an additional revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that provided us with $1.5 billion of available borrowings until November 30, 2018. While we do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt, previous downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper and have required the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. In addition, any further downgrade to our credit ratings by any rating agencies may further impact us in a similar manner, and, depending on the extent of any such downgrade, could have a negative impact on our liquidity and capital position. We can access alternative sources of funding, including drawdowns under our credit facilities, if necessary, to offset potential reductions in the market capacity for our commercial paper.CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER OBLIGATIONSRetirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plan ContributionsAs of July 31, 2018, we anticipate making contributions for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 of approximately $12 million to our non-U.S. pension plans, $8 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified pension plan participants and $4 million to cover benefit claims for our post-retirement benefit plans. Our policy is to fund our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities. For more information on our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 4, “Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.Cost Savings PlanWe expect to make future cash payments of approximately $316 million in connection with our cost savings plans through fiscal year 2019. We are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. Payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities. For more information on our uncertain tax positions, see Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.Payment of one-time transition taxes under the TCJAThe TCJA made significant changes to U.S. tax law resulting in a one-time gross transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings of $3.1 billion. We expect the actual cash payments for the tax to be much lower as we expect to reduce the overall liability by more than half once existing and future credits and other balance sheet attributes are used. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTSAs part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.We have third-party short-term financing arrangements intended to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain customers. For more information on our third-party short-term financing arrangements, see Note 7, “Supplementary Financial Information”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.53Table of Contents Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.For quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk affecting HP, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in Item 7A of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference. Our exposure to market risk has not changed materially since October 31, 2017.Item 4. Based on that evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that there has not been any change in our internal control over financial reporting during that quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.54Table of Contents PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. Legal Proceedings.Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.Item 1A. Risk Factors.Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 and Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2018, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock. Other than the risk factor set forth below, there have been no material changes in our risk factors since our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2018.System security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price.Experienced computer programmers and hackers, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, or attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, customers, or others to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or unwittingly provide access to our systems or data. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. Media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our network security, even if nothing has actually been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially affect our business. While we have developed and implemented security measures and internal controls designed to protect against cyber and other security problems, such measures cannot provide absolute security and may not be successful in preventing future security breaches. In the past, we have experienced data security incidents resulting from unauthorized use of our systems or those of third parties, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future.We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and our customers. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. We also could lose existing or potential customers or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers’ system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant.Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price.Item 2. On June 19, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors authorized an additional $4.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock. This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. HP intends to use repurchases from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically. All share repurchases settled in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 were open market transactions. As of July 31, 2018, HP had approximately $4.5 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.None.Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.Not applicable.Item 5. Other Information.Not applicable.Item 6. Exhibits.The Exhibit Index beginning on page 57 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.56Table of Contents SIGNATUREPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.