See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes”. The financial statements and footnotes are unaudited. In the opinion of the company’s management, these statements include all adjustments, which are only of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present a fair statement of the company’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. These estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events, historical experience, actions that the company may undertake in the future and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. As a result, actual results may be different from these estimates. For a discussion of significant estimates and judgments made in recognizing revenue under the new revenue standard, see note 3, “Revenue Recognition”. Also, refer to the company’s 2017 Annual Report on pages 70 to 73, for a discussion of the company’s critical accounting estimates. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of financial results for a full year. The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the company’s 2017 Annual Report. Within the financial statements and tables presented, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes. Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. This is annotated where applicable. 2. The guidance requires the consideration of all available relevant information when estimating expected credit losses, including past events, current conditions and forecasts and their implications for expected credit losses. The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with a one year early adoption permitted. The company has established an implementation team and is evaluating the impact of the new guidance. The FASB issued guidance in February 2016, with amendments in 2018, which changes the accounting for leases. The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the capital lease test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance. The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. There are certain practical expedients that can be elected which the company is currently evaluating for application. The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 and early adoption is permitted. The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date. A cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements. The company has made progress in gathering the necessary data elements for the lease population and a system provider has been selected, with system configuration and implementation underway. The company is currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The company is currently planning on electing the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance. The company’s operating lease commitments were $6.6 billion at December 31, 2017. In 2017, the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance resulted in the company recognizing $452 million of sales-type lease revenue that would otherwise have been recognized over the lease period as operating lease revenue. The company continues to assess the potential impacts of the guidance, including normal ongoing business dynamics or potential changes in contracting terms. The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted, and can be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to all applicable periods. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2018, and elected not to reclassify prior periods. This guidance allows for the reclassification of stranded tax effects as a result of the change in tax rates from U.S. tax reform to be recorded upon adoption of the guidance rather than at an actual cessation date. At adoption, $2,420 million was reclassified from AOCI to retained earnings, primarily comprised of amounts relating to retirement-related benefit plans. In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the application of current hedge accounting in certain areas, better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements and make targeted improvements to presentation and disclosure requirements. The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2018, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. Under the guidance, the service cost component of net benefit cost continues to be presented within cost, selling, general and administrative expense and research, development and engineering expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, unless eligible for capitalization. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance as of the effective date. The guidance is primarily a change in financial statement presentation and did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. This presentation change was applied retrospectively upon adoption. Refer to note 9, “Retirement-Related Benefits,” for additional information. In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was not permitted except for limited provisions. The company adopted the guidance on the effective date. Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. The amendment also simplified the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value. The guidance did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016. Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance also requires specific disclosures relating to revenue recognition. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets. In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million. Deferred income of $29 million was recorded for certain software licenses that will be recognized over time versus at a point in time under previous guidance. Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million. The guidance did not have a material impact in the company’s consolidated financial results. The company expects revenue recognition for its broad portfolio of hardware, software, and services offerings to remain largely unchanged. Refer to note 3, “Revenue Recognition,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption and changes in accounting policies relating to revenue recognition. In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance which clarifies the definition of a business. The guidance provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities acquired or sold is a business. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was permitted. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. Assets within the scope of the guidance include intellectual property and property, plant and equipment. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was permitted. The company adopted the guidance on January 1, 2017 using the required modified retrospective method. At adoption, $95 million and $47 million were reclassified from investments and sundry assets and prepaid expenses and other current assets, respectively into retained earnings. Additionally, net deferred taxes of $244 million were established in deferred taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $102 million. In January 2017, the company had one transaction that generated a $582 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income and a benefit to both basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.62 per share for the year ended December 31, 2017. The benefit to basic and diluted earnings per share for the period ending March 31, 2017 was $0.62 and $0.61, respectively, with no transactions impacting the consolidated financial results for the period ending March 31, 2018. The ongoing impact of this guidance will be dependent on any transaction that is within its scope. In March 2016, the FASB issued guidance which changes the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The guidance was effective and adopted by the company on January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The ongoing impact of the guidance could result in increased volatility in the provision for income taxes and earnings per share in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, depending on the company’s share price at exercise or vesting of share-based awards compared to grant date, however these impacts are not expected to be material. These impacts are recorded on a prospective basis. The company continues to estimate forfeitures in conjunction with measuring stock-based compensation cost. The guidance also requires cash payments on behalf of employees for shares directly withheld for taxes to be presented as financing outflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Prior to adoption, the company reported this activity as an operating cash outflow and as a result, prior periods have been reclassified as required. The FASB also issued guidance in May 2017, which relates to the accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards. The company adopted the guidance in the second quarter of 2017. The guidance had no impact in the consolidated financial results. 3. This method was applied to contracts that were not complete as of the date of initial application. Refer to note A, “Significant Accounting Policies,” in the company’s 2017 Annual Report for the policies in effect for revenue and cost prior to January 1, 2018 and for all other significant accounting policies. The impact related to adopting the new standard was not material. For further information regarding the adoption of the new standard, see note 2, “Accounting Changes”. Revenue is recognized when, or as, control of a promised product or service transfers to a client, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring those products or services. If the consideration promised in a contract includes a variable amount, the company estimates the amount to which it expects to be entitled using either the expected value or most likely amount method. The company’s contracts may include terms that could cause variability in the transaction price, including, for example, rebates, volume discounts, service-level penalties, and performance bonuses or other forms of contingent revenue. The company only includes estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. The company may not be able to reliably estimate contingent revenue in certain long-term arrangements due to uncertainties that are not expected to be resolved for a long period of time or when the company’s experience with similar types of contracts is limited. The company’s arrangements infrequently include contingent revenue. Changes in estimates of variable consideration are included in the disclosure on page 19. Additionally, in determining the transaction price, the company adjusts the promised amount of consideration for the effects of the time value of money if the billing terms are not standard and the timing of payments agreed to by the parties to the contract provide the client or the company with a significant benefit of financing, in which case the contract contains a significant financing component. As a practical expedient, the company does not account for significant financing components if the period between when the company transfers the promised product or service to the client and when the client pays for that product or service will be one year or less. Most arrangements that contain a financing component are financed through the company’s Global Financing business and include explicit financing terms. The company may include subcontractor services or third-party vendor equipment or software in certain integrated services arrangements. In these types of arrangements, revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is the principal for the transaction. To determine whether the company is an agent or principal, the company considers whether it obtains control of the products or services before they are transferred to the customer. In making this evaluation, several factors are considered, most notably whether the company has primary responsibility for fulfillment to the client, as well as inventory risk and pricing discretion. The company reports revenue net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions. In addition to the aforementioned general policies, the following are the specific revenue recognition policies for arrangements with multiple performance obligations and for each major category of revenue. The company enters into revenue arrangements that may consist of any combination of these products and services based on the needs of its clients. For example, a client may purchase a server that includes operating system software. In addition, the arrangement may include post-contract support for the software and a contract for post-warranty maintenance service for the hardware. These types of arrangements may also include financing provided by the company. These arrangements consist of multiple products and services, whereby the hardware and software may be delivered in one period and the software support and hardware maintenance services are delivered over time. The services delivered on the cloud are provided on a continuous basis across multiple reporting periods, and the hardware and software products are provided in each period the products are purchased. The company continues to build new products and offerings and continuously reinvent its platforms and delivery methods, including through the use of cloud and as-a-Service models. These are not separate businesses; they are offerings across the segments that address market opportunities in analytics, data, cloud and security. To the extent that a product or service in multiple performance obligation arrangements is subject to other specific accounting guidance, such as leasing guidance, that product or service is accounted for in accordance with such specific guidance. For all other products or services in these arrangements, the criteria below are considered to determine when the products or services are distinct and how to allocate the arrangement consideration to each distinct performance obligation. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a client to transfer products or services that are distinct. If the company enters into two or more contracts at or near the same time, the contracts may be combined and accounted for as one contract, in which case the company determines whether the products or services in the combined contract are distinct. If these criteria are not met, the company determines an appropriate measure of progress based on the nature of its overall promise for the single performance obligation. When products and services are distinct, the arrangement consideration is allocated to each performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price basis. The company recognizes revenue when those future products or services are transferred or when the option expires. Many of these services can be delivered entirely or partially through cloud or as-a-Service delivery models. The company’s services are provided on a time-and-material basis, as a fixed-price contract or as a fixed-price per measure of output contract and the contract terms range from less than one year to over 10 years. In services arrangements, the company typically satisfies the performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time. In most other services arrangements, the performance obligation is satisfied over time because the client simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the company performs the services. In outsourcing, other managed services, application management, GPS and other cloud-based services arrangements, the company determines whether the services performed during the initial phases of the arrangement, such as setup activities, are distinct. As a result, revenue is generally recognized over the period the services are provided on a usage basis. This results in revenue recognition that corresponds with the value to the client of the services transferred to date relative to the remaining services promised. If the as-a-Service contract includes setup activities, those promises in the arrangement are evaluated to determine if they are distinct. Revenue related to maintenance and support services and extended warranty is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of performance because the company is standing ready to provide services. Revenue is recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. Due to the nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of cost at completion is complex, subject to many variables and requires significant judgment. Key factors reviewed by the company to estimate costs to complete each contract are future labor and product costs and expected productivity efficiencies. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. The company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its design and build services contracts accounted for using a cost-to-cost measure of progress in order to determine whether the latest estimates of revenues, costs and profits require updating. If at any time these estimates indicate that the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately. For other types of services contracts, any losses are recorded as incurred. In some services contracts, the company bills the client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the services. In other services contracts, the company performs the services prior to billing the client. When the company performs services prior to billing the client in design and build contracts, the right to consideration is typically subject to milestone completion or client acceptance and the unbilled accounts receivable is classified as a contract asset. Refer to page 85 of the company’s 2017 Annual Report for the amount of deferred income and unbilled accounts receivable at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Billings usually occur in the month after the company performs the services or in accordance with specific contractual provisions. These products can also be delivered through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models, such as Storage-as-a-Service. The company also offers installation services for its more complex hardware products. Hardware offerings are often sold with distinct maintenance services, described under the Services section above. Revenue from hardware sales is recognized when control has transferred to the customer which typically occurs when the hardware has been shipped to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the client and the company has a present right to payment for the hardware. In limited circumstances when a hardware sale includes client acceptance provisions, revenue is recognized either when client acceptance has been obtained, client acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the company has objective evidence that the criteria specified in the client acceptance provisions have been satisfied. Revenue from hardware sales-type leases is recognized at the beginning of the lease term. Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the rental or lease. Revenue from as-a-Service arrangements is recognized either on a straight-line basis or on a usage basis as described in the Services section above. Installation services are accounted for as distinct performance obligations with revenue recognized as the services are performed. Any cost of standard warranties is accrued when the corresponding revenue is recognized. Shipping and handling activities that occur after the client has obtained control of a product are accounted for as an activity to fulfill the promise to transfer the product rather than as an additional promised service and, therefore, no revenue is deferred and recognized over the shipping period. Many of these offerings can be delivered entirely or partially through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models, while others are delivered as on-premise software licenses. In limited circumstances, when the software requires continuous updates to provide the intended functionality, the software license and post-contract support are not distinct and revenue for the single performance obligation is recognized over time as the post-contract support is provided. This is only applicable to certain security software perpetual licenses offered by the company. Prior to the adoption of the new revenue standard, the company recognized revenue for these software licenses at a point in time at the inception of the arrangement. This change did not have a material impact on the company’s financial statements. Revenue from software hosting or Software-as-a-Service arrangements is recognized either on a straight-line basis or on a usage basis as described in the Services section above. In arrangements that include a software license, the associated revenue is recognized in accordance with the software license recognition policy above rather than over time as a service. However, if the amount of consideration to be paid in exchange for the license depends on client usage, revenue is recognized when the usage occurs. Operating lease income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. In most cases, the company is able to establish SSP based on the observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar clients. The company typically establishes a standalone selling price range for its products and services which are reassessed on a periodic basis or when facts and circumstances change. In certain instances, the company may not be able to establish a standalone selling price range based on observable prices and the company estimates the standalone selling price. The company estimates SSP by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, overall market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, competitor actions, internal costs, profit objectives and pricing practices. Additionally, in certain circumstances, the company may estimate SSP for a product or service by applying the residual approach. This approach has been most commonly used when certain perpetual software licenses are only sold bundled with one year of post-contract support and a price has not been established for the software. Estimating SSP is a formal process that includes review and approval by the company’s management. Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, which includes anticipated contract renewals or extensions, consistent with the transfer to the client of the services to which the asset relates. Additionally, fixed assets associated with these contracts are capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the asset. If an asset is contract specific, then the depreciation period is the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the contract term. Amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis as a reduction of revenue over the expected period of benefit. The company performs periodic reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs. This review is done by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the remaining amount of consideration the company expects to receive for the services to which the asset relates, less the costs that relate directly to providing those services that have not yet been recognized. If the carrying amount is deemed not recoverable, an impairment loss is recognized. Recurring operating costs in these contracts are recognized as incurred. The company previously expensed these costs as incurred. The expected customer relationship is determined based on the average customer relationship period, including expected renewals, for each offering type and ranges from three to six years. Expected renewal periods are only included in the expected customer relationship period if commission amounts paid upon renewal are not commensurate with amounts paid on the initial contract. Incremental costs of obtaining a contract include only those costs the company incurs to obtain a contract that it would not have incurred if the contract had not been obtained. The company has determined that certain commissions programs meet the requirements to be capitalized. Some commission programs are not subject to capitalization as the commission expense is paid and recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Additionally, as a practical expedient, the company expenses costs to obtain a contract as incurred if the amortization period would have been a year or less. These costs are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Estimated costs for standard warranty terms are recognized when revenue is recorded for the related product. The company estimates its warranty costs standard to the product based on historical warranty claim experience and estimates of future spending, and applies this estimate to the revenue stream for products under warranty. Estimated future costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the current period are charged to cost of sales. The warranty liability is reviewed quarterly to verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on the anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period. Adjustments are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from estimates. Costs from fixed-price support or maintenance contracts, including extended warranty contracts, are recognized as incurred. Revenue from extended warranty contracts is initially recorded as deferred income and subsequently recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period because the company is providing a service of standing ready to provide services over such term. A receivable is a right to consideration that is unconditional as compared to a contract asset which is a right to consideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. The majority of the company’s contract assets represent unbilled amounts related to design and build services contracts when the cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition is utilized, revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the client, and the right to consideration is subject to milestone completion or client acceptance. At January 1, 2018 and March 31, 2018 contract assets of $557 million and $582 million, respectively, are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. At December 31, 2017, these assets were classified as notes and accounts receivable-trade in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. An allowance for contract assets, if needed, and uncollectible trade receivables is estimated based on a combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known troubled accounts. It is intended to be a statement of overall work under contract that has not yet been performed and does not include contracts in which the customer is not committed, such as certain as-a-Service, governmental, term software license and services offerings. The customer is not considered committed when they are able to terminate for convenience without payment of a substantive penalty. The disclosure includes estimates of variable consideration, except when the variable consideration is a sales-based or usage-based royalty promised in exchange for a license of intellectual property. Additionally, as a practical expedient, the company does not include contracts that have an original duration of one year or less. Remaining performance obligation estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustment for revenue that has not materialized and adjustments for currency. See pages 14 and 15 for additional information on percentage-of-completion contracts and estimates of costs to complete. The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 that was included within the deferred income balance at January 1, 2018 was $3.5 billion and primarily relates to services and software. In prior periods, the current and noncurrent balance of deferred costs were included within prepaid expenses and other current assets and investments and sundry assets, respectively. On January 1, 2018, in accordance with the transition guidance, $737 million of in-scope sales commissions that were previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized as costs to obtain a contract. The amount of total deferred costs amortized during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was $855 million. There were no material impairment losses incurred during the period. Refer to pages 16 and 17 for additional information on deferred costs to fulfill a contract and capitalized costs of obtaining a contract. The following tables summarize the impacts as of and for the quarter ended March 31, 2018. The impacts to adjust to prior GAAP are primarily the result of the transition adjustments recorded at adoption. Current period impacts were not material. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for additional information on the transition adjustments. The guidance requires the use of observable market data if such data is available without undue cost and effort. When available, the company uses unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets to measure the fair value and classifies such items as Level 1. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that use current market-based or independently sourced market parameters such as interest rates and currency rates. Items valued using internally generated models are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation. The determination of fair value considers various factors including interest rate yield curves and time value underlying the financial instruments. For derivatives and debt securities, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis using discount rates commensurate with the duration of the instrument. The methodology is consistent with that applied in developing counterparty credit risk adjustments, but incorporates the company’s own credit risk as observed in the credit default swap market. As an example, the fair value of derivatives is derived utilizing a discounted cash flow model that uses observable market inputs such as known notional value amounts, yield curves, spot and forward exchange rates as well as discount rates. These inputs relate to liquid, heavily traded currencies with active markets which are available for the full term of the derivative. Certain assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis can be subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements. These assets include available-for-sale debt securities that are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. In the event of an other-than-temporary impairment of a debt security, fair value is measured using a model described above. Certain non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, land, goodwill and intangible assets are also subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements if they are deemed to be impaired. The impairment models used for nonfinancial assets depend on the type of asset. There were no material impairments of non-financial assets for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Accounting guidance permits the measurement of eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards. This election is irrevocable. The company has not applied the fair value option to any eligible assets or liabilities. Effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted the new FASB guidance on recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments using the cumulative catch-up transition method. Under the new standard, the company measures equity investments at fair value with changes recognized in net income. Based on the method of adoption, prior year information has not been updated to conform with the new guidance. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for further information. There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and the year ended December 31, 2017. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, except for short-term debt, which would be classified as Level 2. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value for loans and long-term receivables was immaterial. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. For other long-term debt for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value. The carrying amount of long-term debt was $40,410 million and $39,837 million, and the estimated fair value was $42,334 million and $42,264 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The contractual maturities of substantially all available-for-sale debt securities are less than one year at March 31, 2018. In the normal course of business, the company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, and to a lesser extent equity and commodity price changes and client credit risk. The company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives, and, where cost effective, financing with debt in the currencies in which assets are denominated. For interest rate exposures, derivatives are used to better align rate movements between the interest rates associated with the company’s lease and other financial assets and the interest rates associated with its financing debt. Derivatives are also used to manage the related cost of debt. For foreign currency exposures, derivatives are used to better manage the cash flow volatility arising from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. As a result of the use of derivative instruments, the company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based upon their overall credit profile. The company’s established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk on principal transactions include reviewing and establishing limits for credit exposure and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties. The right of set-off that exists under certain of these arrangements enables the legal entities of the company subject to the arrangement to net amounts due to and from the counterparty reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default. The company is also a party to collateral security arrangements with most of its major derivative counterparties. Posting thresholds can be fixed or can vary based on credit default swap pricing or credit ratings received from the major credit agencies. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability position at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $42 million and $126 million, respectively, for which no collateral was posted at either date. Full collateralization of these agreements would be required in the event that the company’s credit rating falls below investment grade or if its credit default swap spread exceeds 250 basis points, as applicable, pursuant to the terms of the collateral security arrangements. The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset positions at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $940 million and $942 million, respectively. This amount represents the maximum exposure to loss at the reporting date if the counterparties failed to perform as contracted. This exposure was reduced by $272 million and $255 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, of liabilities included in master netting arrangements with those counterparties. There were no non-cash collateral balances in U.S. Treasury securities at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $506 million and $572 million, respectively. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the net position related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $80 million and $160 million, respectively. In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments. No amount was recognized in other receivables at March 31, 2018 or December 31, 2017 for the right to reclaim cash collateral. The amount recognized in accounts payable for the obligation to return cash collateral was $162 million and $114 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The company restricts the use of cash collateral received to rehypothecation, and therefore reports it in restricted cash in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. No amount was rehypothecated at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The company may employ derivative instruments to hedge the volatility in stockholders’ equity resulting from changes in currency exchange rates of significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect to the U.S. dollar. These instruments, designated as net investment hedges, expose the company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not offset by a cash flow from the translation of the underlying hedged equity. The company monitors this cash loss potential on an ongoing basis and may discontinue some of these hedging relationships by de-designating or terminating the derivative instrument in order to manage the liquidity risk. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to offset the changes in the fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity. In its hedging programs, the company uses forward contracts, futures contracts, interest-rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, and options depending upon the underlying exposure. The company is not a party to leveraged derivative instruments. A brief description of the major hedging programs, categorized by underlying risk, follows. Access to cost-effective financing can result in interest rate mismatches with the underlying assets. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of the company’s interest rate swaps was $9.9 billion and $9.1 billion, respectively. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was approximately 4.8 years at both periods. To manage this risk, the company may use forward starting interest-rate swaps to lock in the rate on the interest payments related to the forecasted debt issuance. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The company also uses cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts for this risk management purpose. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments was approximately 0.2 years at both periods. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its currency risk. These forward contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is four years. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactions was $8.2 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was 0.7 years at both periods. To manage this risk, the company employs cross-currency swaps to convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is approximately ten years. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of cross-currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated debt was $6.5 billion at both periods. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company’s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of foreign currency exposure was $8.9 billion and $11.5 billion, respectively. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company utilizes derivatives, including equity swaps and futures, to economically hedge the exposures related to its employee compensation obligations. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of these compensation obligations was $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. The company did not have any warrants qualifying as derivatives outstanding at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The company is exposed to a potential loss if a client fails to pay amounts due under contractual terms. The company may utilize credit default swaps to economically hedge its credit exposures. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The company is exposed to market volatility on certain investment securities. The company may utilize options or forwards to economically hedge its market exposure. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding. The following tables provide a quantitative summary of the derivative and non-derivative instrument-related risk management activity at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, as well as for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes,” for further information. Investment in sales-type and direct financing leases relates principally to the company’s systems products and are for terms ranging generally from two to six years. Commercial financing receivables relate primarily to inventory and accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. Payment terms for inventory and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30 to 90 days. Payment terms on these financing arrangements are generally for terms up to seven years. Client loans and installment payment financing contracts are priced independently at competitive market rates. Financing receivables pledged as collateral for borrowings were $687 million and $773 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The company did not have any financing receivables held for sale as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Commercial financing receivables are excluded from the presentation of financing receivables by portfolio segment, as they are short term in nature and the current estimated risk of loss and resulting impact to the company’s financing results are not material. Both interest income recognized and interest income recognized on a cash basis on impaired leases and loans were immaterial for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Provisions for credit losses recorded for lease receivables and loan receivables were $9 million and $7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017. When determining the allowances, financing receivables are evaluated either on an individual or a collective basis. For individually evaluated receivables, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve. The company considers any receivable with an individually evaluated reserve as an impaired receivable. In addition, the company records an unallocated reserve that is determined by applying a reserve rate to its different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been specifically reserved. The following table summarizes information about the recorded investment in leases and loans financing receivables, including recorded investments aged over 90 days and still accruing, billed invoices aged over 90 days and recorded investment not accruing. The resulting indicators are a numerical rating system that maps to Moody’s Investors Service credit ratings as shown below. The company uses information provided by Moody’s, where available, as one of many inputs in its determination of customer credit ratings. The following tables present the recorded investment net of allowance for credit losses for each class of receivables, by credit quality indicator, at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Receivables with a credit quality indicator ranging from Aaa to Baa3 are considered investment grade. All others are considered non-investment grade. The credit quality indicators do not reflect mitigation actions that the company takes to transfer credit risk to third parties. 6. The following table presents total stock-based compensation cost included in income from continuing operations. As of March 31, 2018, the total unrecognized compensation cost of $733 million related to non-vested awards was expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.4 years. There was no significant capitalized stock-based compensation cost at March 31, 2018 and 2017. Performance measurement is based on operating pre-tax income from continuing operations. Refer to note 2, “Accounting Changes”. 9. The following table provides the pre-tax cost for all retirement-related plans. In 2018, the company expects to contribute approximately $400 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit and multi-employer plans, the largest of which will be contributed to the defined benefit pension plans in Japan, Spain and the UK. This amount generally represents the legally mandated minimum contribution. Total contributions to the non-U.S. plans in the first three months of 2018 were $191 million, of which $44 million was in cash and $147 million in U.S. Treasury securities. Total net contributions to the non-U.S. plans in the first three months of 2017 were $182 million, of which $40 million was in cash and $142 million in U.S. Treasury securities. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The following table provides the components of the cost for the company’s nonpension postretirement plans. The company contributed $120 million in U.S. Treasury securities to the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan during the three months ended March 31, 2018, and $135 million in U.S. Treasury securities during the three months ended March 31, 2017. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The net carrying amount of intangible assets decreased $221 million during the first quarter of 2018, primarily due to intangible asset amortization, partially offset by additions resulting from capitalized software. The aggregate intangible amortization expense was $340 million and $390 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In addition, in the first three months of 2018, the company retired $231 million of fully amortized intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by this amount. There were no goodwill impairment losses recorded during the first three months of 2018 or the full year of 2017 and the company has no accumulated impairment losses. Purchase price adjustments recorded in the first three months of 2018 and full year 2017 were related to acquisitions that were completed on or prior to December 31, 2017 or September 30, 2017, respectively, and were still subject to the measurement period that ends at the earlier of 12 months from the acquisition date or when information becomes available. Net purchase price adjustments recorded during the first three months of 2018 were not material. Net purchase price adjustments of $38 million were recorded during 2017, with the primary drivers being deferred tax assets, other taxes payable and other current liabilities associated with the Truven Health Analytics, Inc. and The Weather Company acquisitions. 11. The weighted-average interest rate for short-term loans was 7.6 percent and 8.8 percent at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. There are no debt securities issued and outstanding by IBM International Group Capital LLC, which is an indirect, 100 percent owned finance subsidiary of International Business Machines Corporation, the parent. Any debt securities issued by IBM International Group Capital LLC, would be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the parent. In 2017, IBM Credit LLC issued fixed and floating rate debt securities in the aggregate amount of $3.0 billion with maturity dates ranging from 2019 to 2022. During the first quarter of 2018, IBM Credit LLC issued fixed and floating rate debt securities in the aggregate amount of $2.0 billion with maturity dates ranging from 2021 to 2023. This debt is included in the long-term debt table above. The credit facilities also include a covenant on the company’s consolidated net interest expense ratio, which cannot be less than 2.20 to 1.0, as well as a cross default provision with respect to other defaulted indebtedness of at least $500 million. The company is in compliance with all of its significant debt covenants and provides periodic certifications to its lenders. The failure to comply with its debt covenants could constitute an event of default with respect to the debt to which such provisions apply. If certain events of default were to occur, the principal and interest on the debt to which such event of default applied would become immediately due and payable. The company is a leader in the information technology industry and, as such, has been and will continue to be subject to claims challenging its IP rights and associated products and offerings, including claims of copyright and patent infringement and violations of trade secrets and other IP rights. In addition, the company enforces its own IP against infringement, through license negotiations, lawsuits or otherwise. These actions may be commenced by a number of different parties, including competitors, clients, current or former employees, government and regulatory agencies, stockholders and representatives of the locations in which the company does business. Some of the actions to which the company is party may involve particularly complex technical issues, and some actions may raise novel questions under the laws of the various jurisdictions in which these matters arise. The company records a provision with respect to a claim, suit, investigation or proceeding when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Any recorded liabilities, including any changes to such liabilities for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with the relevant accounting guidance, the company provides disclosures of matters for which the likelihood of material loss is at least reasonably possible. In addition, the company also discloses matters based on its consideration of other matters and qualitative factors, including the experience of other companies in the industry, and investor, customer and employee relations considerations. With respect to the remaining claims, suits, investigations and proceedings discussed in this note, except as specifically discussed herein, the company is unable to provide estimates of reasonably possible losses or range of losses, including losses in excess of amounts accrued, if any, for the following reasons. It is the company’s experience that damage amounts claimed in litigation against it are unreliable and unrelated to possible outcomes, and as such are not meaningful indicators of the company’s potential liability. While the company will continue to defend itself vigorously, it is possible that the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these matters. The following is a summary of the more significant legal matters involving the company. The company removed the case to Federal Court in Utah. On September 14, 2007, plaintiff filed for bankruptcy protection, and all proceedings in this case were stayed. The court in another suit, the SCO Group, Inc. v. Novell, Inc., held a trial in March 2010. The jury found that Novell is the owner of UNIX and UnixWare copyrights; the judge subsequently ruled that SCO is obligated to recognize Novell’s waiver of SCO’s claims against IBM and Sequent for breach of UNIX license agreements. On August 30, 2011, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the district court’s ruling and denied SCO’s appeal of this matter. In June 2013, the Federal Court in Utah granted SCO’s motion to reopen the SCO v. IBM case. In February 2016, the Federal Court ruled in favor of IBM on all of SCO’s remaining claims, and SCO appealed. On October 30, 2017, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal of all but one of SCO’s remaining claims, which was remanded to the Federal Court in Utah. After six weeks of trial, on July 18, 2012, the Indiana Superior Court in Marion County rejected the State’s claims in their entirety and awarded IBM $52 million plus interest and costs. On February 13, 2014, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed portions of the trial judge’s findings, found IBM in material breach, and ordered the case remanded to the trial judge to determine the State’s damages, if any. The Indiana Court of Appeals also affirmed approximately $50 million of the trial court’s award of damages to IBM. On March 22, 2016, the Indiana Supreme Court affirmed the outcome of the Indiana Court of Appeals and remanded the case to the Indiana Superior Court. On August 7, 2017, the Indiana Superior Court awarded the State $128 million, which it then offset against IBM’s previously affirmed award of $50 million, resulting in a $78 million award to the State, plus interest. IBM appealed to the Indiana Court of Appeals and the matter remains pending. On March 9, 2017, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania’s Department of Labor and Industry sued IBM in Pennsylvania state court regarding a 2006 contract for the development of a custom software system to manage the Commonwealth’s unemployment insurance benefits programs. The matter is pending in a Pennsylvania court. IBM counterclaimed against Bridgestone and its parent, Bridgestone Corp. The case is pending in the Middle District of Tennessee. Following the 2017 final judgment of the Appeal Court in London holding that IBM UK acted lawfully in 2010 in closing its UK defined benefit plans to future accruals for most participants and in implementing a new retirement policy, the Employment Tribunal in Southampton UK is expected to address approximately 290 individual actions alleging constructive dismissal and age discrimination brought against IBM UK in 2010 by employees who left the company at that time. The individual actions were previously stayed. Management’s Retirement Plans Committee and three current or former IBM executives are named as defendants. On September 29, 2017, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the first amended complaint. Plaintiffs appealed to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals and the matter remains pending. In August 2015, IBM learned that the SEC is conducting an investigation relating to revenue recognition with respect to the accounting treatment of certain transactions in the U.S., UK and Ireland. The company is cooperating with the SEC in this matter. Such statutes require potentially responsible parties to participate in remediation activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites. The company is also conducting environmental investigations, assessments or remediations at or in the vicinity of several current or former operating sites globally pursuant to permits, administrative orders or agreements with country, state or local environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning certain current or former operating sites. The company is also subject to ongoing tax examinations and governmental assessments in various jurisdictions. Along with many other U.S. companies doing business in Brazil, the company is involved in various challenges with Brazilian tax authorities regarding non-income tax assessments and non-income tax litigation matters. The total potential amount related to all these matters for all applicable years is approximately $1.0 billion. The company believes it will prevail on these matters and that this amount is not a meaningful indicator of liability. 13. A portion of these amounts was available to the company’s business partners to support their working capital needs. In addition, the company has committed to provide future financing to its clients in connection with client purchase agreements for approximately $3,357 million and $3,569 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The company has applied the guidance requiring a guarantor to disclose certain types of guarantees, even if the likelihood of requiring the guarantor’s performance is remote. The following is a description of arrangements in which the company is the guarantor. The company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. In each of these circumstances, payment by the company is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, the procedures of which typically allow the company to challenge the other party’s claims. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the company’s obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the company guarantees certain loans and financial commitments. The maximum potential future payment under these financial guarantees was $18 million and $19 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The fair value of the guarantees recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is not material. 14. This benefit was primarily driven by the resolution of certain tax matters relating to the ongoing U.S. Federal audit of the company’s 2013-2014 tax returns and the completion of the U.S. Federal audit of amended tax returns filed for prior years. The reserve redeterminations from the U.S. Federal audits and other discrete matters resulted in a benefit of $807 million. The company has agreed with all of the adjustments in the RAR. The IRS continues to examine certain cross-border transactions undertaken in 2013. Although the IRS could propose additional adjustments, the company believes it is adequately reserved on these issues. The company has redetermined its unrecognized tax benefits for all open years, based on the RAR and associated information and analysis. With respect to major U.S. state and foreign taxing jurisdictions, the company is generally no longer subject to tax examinations for years prior to 2013. The company is no longer subject to income tax examination of its U.S. federal tax return for years prior to 2013. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the company believes that adequate amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any adjustments that are expected to result for these years. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2017 decreased $1,015 million in the first quarter of 2018 to $6,016 million. The decrease was primarily related to the resolution of certain tax matters in relation to the U.S. audits described above. The liability at March 31, 2018 of $6,016 million can be reduced by $599 million of offsetting tax benefits associated with timing adjustments, U.S. tax credits, potential transfer pricing adjustments, and state income taxes. The net amount of $5,417 million, if recognized, would favorably affect the company’s effective tax rate. The company is involved in a number of income tax-related matters in India challenging tax assessments issued by the India Tax Authorities. As of March 31, 2018, the company has recorded $666 million as prepaid income taxes in India. The company believes it will prevail on these matters. U.S. tax reform introduced many changes, including lowering the U.S. corporate tax rate to 21 percent, changes in incentives, provisions to prevent U.S. base erosion and significant changes in the taxation of international income, including provisions which allow for the repatriation of foreign earnings without U.S. tax. The enactment of U.S. tax reform resulted in the company recording a provisional charge of $5,475 million to tax expense in the fourth-quarter and year-ended December 31, 2017. This charge was the result of the one-time U.S. transition tax and any foreign tax costs on undistributed foreign earnings, as well as the remeasurement of deferred tax balances to the new U.S. Federal tax rate. All components of the provisional charge of $5,475 million were based on the company’s estimates as of December 31, 2017. Specifically, the transition tax, any foreign tax costs, as well as the remeasurement of deferred tax balances are provisional and have been calculated based on existing tax law and the best information available as of the date of estimate. The effect of U.S. tax reform changes on deferred tax assets and liabilities was a benefit of $270 million and was included in the one-time charge. An additional provisional charge of $107 million was recorded in the first quarter as a result of IRS guidance issued in January 2018. The company is still evaluating the Act’s GILTI provisions and has not yet elected an accounting policy. As these various factors are finalized, any change will be recorded as an adjustment to the provision for, or benefit from, income taxes in the period the amounts are determined, not to exceed 12 months from the date of U.S. tax reform enactment. The company has not completed its assessment and the tax charge remains provisional as of March 31, 2018. In early April 2018, additional guidance was issued by the IRS related to U.S. tax reform. It is not expected to result in a material change to the company’s provisional charge and will be recorded as part of the second-quarter 2018 tax provision. 16. The dividend is payable June 9, 2018 to shareholders of record on May 10, 2018. The dividend declaration represents an increase of $0.07 per common share, which is 5 percent higher than the prior quarterly dividend of $1.50 per common share. The guidance is primarily a change in financial statement presentation, but did impact the consolidated and reportable segment gross profit margins and expense and other income. The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis. The company filed a Form 8-K on March 29, 2018 to recast its historical consolidated and segment information to reflect the change. When the company refers to growth rates at constant currency or adjusts such growth rates for currency, it is done so that certain financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of its business performance. Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate. This approach is used for countries where the functional currency is the local currency. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations” on pages 69 and 70 for additional information. Operating earnings from continuing operations is a non-GAAP measure that excludes the effects of certain acquisition-related charges, intangible asset amortization expense resulting from basis differences on equity method investments, retirement-related costs, discontinued operations and related tax impacts. These charges are excluded as they may be inconsistent in amount and timing from period to period and are dependent on the size, type and frequency of the company’s acquisitions. Throughout the Management Discussion, the impact of acquisitions over the prior 12-month period may be a driver of higher expense year to year. For retirement-related costs, the company characterizes certain items as operating and others as non-operating. The company includes defined benefit plan and nonpension postretirement benefit plan service cost, multi-employer plan costs and the cost of defined contribution plans in operating earnings. Non-operating retirement-related costs are primarily related to changes in pension plan assets and liabilities which are tied to financial market performance and the company considers these costs to be outside of the operational performance of the business. Overall, the company believes that providing investors with a view of operating earnings as described above provides increased transparency and clarity into both the operational results of the business and the performance of the company’s pension plans; improves visibility to management decisions and their impacts on operational performance; enables better comparisons to peer companies; and allows the company to provide a long-term strategic view of the business going forward. The company’s reportable segment financial results reflect operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company’s management and measurement system. The company also generated $4.6 billion in cash from operations and $1.3 billion in free cash flow in the first quarter of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $2.2 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends. The first-quarter results demonstrate the work the company has done to reposition the business to lead in the high-value segments of IT, its differentiated value proposition and that its financial strategy and model are built to deliver to clients and shareholders over the long term. The company continued to have solid revenue growth in its strategic imperatives, led by cloud and security. From a segment perspective, Cognitive Solutions revenue increased 5.8 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency, compared to first-quarter 2017, with continued growth in security software and industry platforms and a return to growth in analytics. GBS revenue increased 4.2 percent as reported, but decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency. Consulting increased 5.5 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency and Application Management increased 4.1 percent as reported, but decreased 2 percent adjusted for currency. Within GBS, strategic imperatives revenue increased 12 percent as reported and 6 percent adjusted for currency year to year reflecting the ongoing shift to areas of higher client value. Systems increased 7.5 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency driven by strong growth in IBM Z and a second consecutive quarter of growth in Power Systems. Strategic imperatives revenue of $9.0 billion increased 15 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency in the first quarter, with double-digit growth in cloud, security and mobile, as the company continues to build new platforms and solutions and embeds cloud and AI capabilities across the business. Strategic imperatives revenue over the last 12 months was $37.7 billion, an increase of 12 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency, representing 47 percent of the company’s total revenue. Total Cloud revenue in the first quarter of 2018 of $4.2 billion increased 20 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency, with as-a-Service revenue up 25 percent as reported and 20 percent adjusted for currency. The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $10.7 billion in the first quarter of 2018 compared to $8.6 billion in the first quarter of 2017. Analytics revenue of $4.8 billion increased 9 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency. From a geographic perspective, Americas revenue was flat year to year as reported and adjusted for currency, with a decline in the U.S, offset by growth in Canada and Latin America. Performance in EMEA in the first quarter of 2018 included mixed results across the major countries, with increased revenue in France and Spain as reported and adjusted for currency, while Germany, the UK and Italy all had growth as reported, but declined adjusted for currency. In the quarter, China and India increased as reported and adjusted for currency. Japan increased as reported, but declined adjusted for currency. The consolidated gross margin of 43.2 percent decreased 0.5 points year to year. Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.1 billion decreased 20.2 percent and the pre-tax margin was 6.0 percent, a decrease of 1.9 points year to year. Income from continuing operations of $1.7 billion decreased 4.4 percent and the net income margin was 8.8 percent, a decrease of 0.9 points versus the first quarter of 2017. Net income of $1.7 billion decreased 4.1 percent year to year. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.81 decreased 2.2 percent year to year. In the first quarter of 2018, the company repurchased 5.0 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $0.8 billion and had $3.0 billion remaining in the current share repurchase authorization at March 31, 2018. At March 31, 2018, the balance sheet remains strong and the company continues to have the financial flexibility to support the business over the long term. Cash, restricted cash and marketable securities at quarter end were $13.2 billion, an increase of $0.3 billion from December 31, 2017. The company generated $4.6 billion in cash flow provided by operating activities, an increase of $0.6 billion compared to the first quarter of 2017, driven primarily by an increase in cash provided by working capital performance and financing receivables, partially offset by an increase in cash income tax payments. The company continues to expect free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2018. Free cash flow realization is expected to be in excess of 100 percent of GAAP net income. Refer to page 70 in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on this non-GAAP measure. Refer to the Looking Forward section on pages 68 and 69 for additional information on the company’s expectations. Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between segments that are intended to reflect an arm’s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items. Yr. to Yr. There was year-to-year growth in both Solutions Software and Transaction Processing Software on an as-reported and constant currency basis. Within analytics, year-to-year growth, as reported and adjusted for currency, was driven by strong transactional performance. Revenue from security offerings grew again this quarter compared to the prior year with strong growth in SaaS. The company remains well positioned in this market and continues to increase its AI capabilities across its extensive security portfolio. Growth was driven by Z middleware, as clients continue to invest and grow their high-value, mission-critical workloads on the Z platform. Cognitive Solutions gross profit margin decreased 1.0 points to 76.3 percent in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year reflecting the strong transactional performance in the quarter offset by continued investment in strategic areas, business mix and a higher level of royalty cost associated with IP licensing agreements compared to the prior-year period. Pre-tax income of $1,333 million increased 5.1 percent in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. While the pre-tax margin declined 0.3 points to 26.2 percent, this included an impact of 1.8 points from higher workforce rebalancing charges in the current year. These results reflect modest improvement in the year-to-year performance compared to the fourth quarter of 2017. As the company continues to transform this business, GBS signings grew again in the quarter, both as reported and adjusted for currency. There was growth year to year in strategic imperatives revenue reflecting the ongoing shift to areas of higher client value, such as cloud and analytics. This performance was led by the Digital Strategy and iX business, which implements end-to-end digital transformation strategies for clients. Application Management signings grew double digits as reported and adjusted for currency compared to the prior year as the company leverages its incumbency to help clients modernize their critical applications and migrate to the cloud. GBS gross profit margin stabilized in the first quarter, decreasing 0.1 points year to year to 23.3 percent with a 1.9 point improvement in trajectory from the fourth quarter of 2017. This stabilization was driven by productivity, revenue mix and pricing improvements. Pre-tax income of $145 million decreased 48.6 percent year to year. The pre-tax margin declined 3.5 points to 3.4 percent which included an impact of 1.9 points from a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges in the current year. Overall, this performance reflects the company’s ongoing investments in the next generation of offerings, skills and enablement, and reshaping of its pyramids for each of the core service lines which will drive operating leverage in the long term. These results reflected improvement in year-to-year performance, as reported and adjusted for currency compared to the fourth quarter of 2017. In the first quarter, signings grew double digits as clients continue to recognize the long-term value of the company’s offerings and capabilities. This resulted from improved revenue from backlog realization as the company continues to help clients drive efficiencies and gain agility in their IT environments through hybrid cloud. This portfolio remains essential to clients as they connect multiple environments through a single architecture. There was trajectory improvement of 1.4 points in the year-to-year margin change compared to the fourth quarter of 2017 reflecting improved productivity, scaling and mix within Integration Software. Pre-tax income of $436 million decreased 35.2 percent. The pre-tax margin declined 3.1 points year to year to 5.0 percent, which included an impact of 2.0 points from a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges in the current year. There was growth in Global Technology Services backlog as reported, but a decrease year to year adjusted for currency. GBS backlog was flat year to year as reported and decreased year to year adjusted for currency. Total services backlog includes Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services, Application Management and Technical Support Services. Total backlog is intended to be a statement of overall work under contract which is either non-cancellable, or which historically has very low likelihood of termination, given the criticality of certain services to the company’s clients. Total backlog does not include as-a-Service arrangements that allow for termination under contractual commitment terms. Backlog estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustments for revenue not materialized and adjustments for currency. Services signings are management’s initial estimate of the value of a client’s commitment under a services contract. There are no third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of signings. The calculation used by management involves estimates and judgments to gauge the extent of a client’s commitment, including the type and duration of the agreement, and the presence of termination charges or wind-down costs. Signings include Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services and Application Management contracts. Contract extensions and increases in scope are treated as signings only to the extent of the incremental new value. Technical Support Services is not included in signings as maintenance contracts tend to be more steady state, where revenues equal renewals. Contract portfolios purchased in an acquisition are treated as positive backlog adjustments provided those contracts meet the company’s requirements for initial signings. A new signing will be recognized if a new services agreement is signed incidental or coincidental to an acquisition or divestiture. This performance was driven by strong z14 momentum and growth in Power Systems, partially offset by a decline in Storage Systems, as reported and adjusted for currency. The adoption of the z14 was again broad based with new clients added to the platform across several countries during the quarter. The company continues to address emerging workloads across the Z platform including blockchain, machine learning, dev ops and payments. The new z14 model, designed specifically for cloud environments, was recently announced bringing the power of IBM Z to a broader set of clients. The mainframe continues to deliver a high-value, secure and scalable platform that is critical in managing clients’ complex environments. Power Systems remain vital to many workloads and during the first quarter, the company began shipping POWER 9 entry systems which are designed for AIX, IBM i and Linux workloads. These cloud-ready systems provide leadership capabilities in advanced analytics, cloud environments and data intensive AI workloads. This decline was driven by an increasingly competitive environment and continued pricing pressures. There were also sales execution challenges that impacted performance in the first quarter of 2018. The Systems gross profit margin decreased 3.8 points to 43.7 percent in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. The year-to-year decrease was driven by actions taken in the quarter to better position the systems cost structure over the longer term which impacted margin by 4.9 points. This was partially offset by a benefit from product mix, primarily toward the higher margin IBM Z. The pre-tax loss in the first quarter of 2018 was $203 million compared with $188 million in the prior year. The pre-tax margin was relatively flat year to year, which included the margin impact and a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges in the current year. Overall, in the first quarter of 2018, the business’ underlying performance, excluding these significant items in cost and expense, reflected pre-tax margin expansion while successfully delivering innovation in support of clients’ evolving workload needs. Global Financing facilitates IBM clients’ acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise, while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment and used equipment purchased externally. Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio. The increase in external financing revenue in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, was due to higher average asset balances, partially offset by lower asset yields. Total sales of used equipment represented 50.0 percent of Global Financing’s revenue in the first quarter of 2018 and 48.9 percent in the first quarter of 2017. The increase was due to a higher volume of used equipment sales for internal transactions. The gross profit margin on used sales was 59.0 percent and 51.5 percent in the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in the gross profit margin was driven by a shift in mix towards higher margin internal equipment sales and an increase in external sales margins. Global Financing pre-tax income increased 21.3 percent to $377 million in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to higher gross profit of $59 million and a decrease in total expenses of $7 million. Global Financing return on equity was 32.5 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to 25.2 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase in return on equity in the first quarter was due to an increase in annualized after-tax income. Refer to page 72 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculation. Total unguaranteed residual value of leases was $671 million as of March 31, 2018. In addition to the unguaranteed residual value, on a limited basis, Global Financing will obtain guarantees of the future value of the equipment to be returned at end of lease. Third-party residual value guarantees increase the minimum lease payments as provided for by accounting standards that are utilized in determining the classification of a lease as a sales-type lease, direct financing lease or operating lease. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of sales-type leases were $21 million and $43 million for the financing transactions originated during the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of direct financing leases were $48 million and $34 million for the financing transactions originated during the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The associated aggregate guaranteed future values at the scheduled end of lease were $3 million for the financing transactions originated during each of the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Yr. to Yr. Total revenue of $19,072 million increased 5.1 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. Americas revenue of $8,707 million was flat as reported and adjusted for currency. EMEA revenue of $6,176 million increased 13.6 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency. Asia Pacific revenue of $4,188 million increased 4.8 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency in the first quarter versus the prior year. Within Americas, the U.S. decreased 2.0 percent compared to the prior year. Canada increased 8.8 percent as reported and 4 percent year to year adjusted for currency. Latin America increased 5.4 percent as reported and 7 percent adjusted for currency. Within Latin America, Brazil increased 4.9 percent as reported and 8 percent adjusted for currency. Mexico increased 3.9 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency. Germany increased 11.5 percent as reported, but declined 3 percent adjusted for currency and the UK increased 10.2 percent as reported, but decreased 2 percent adjusted for currency. The Middle East and Africa region increased 9.3 percent as reported and 7 percent adjusted for currency. Within Asia Pacific, Japan increased 4.3 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency, while China increased 8.8 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency. Bad debt expense decreased $2 million year to year. The receivables provision coverage was 1.7 percent at March 31, 2018, an increase of 10 basis points from December 31, 2017 and a decrease of 50 basis points from March 31, 2017. The company entered into new partnership agreements in the first three months of 2018, which included one transaction with period income greater than $100 million. There was also one transaction greater than $100 million in the first quarter of 2017. The company licenses IP to partners who allocate their skills to extend the value of assets that are high value, but may be in mature markets. The timing and amount of licensing, sales or other transfers of IP may vary significantly from period to period depending upon the timing of licensing agreements, economic conditions, industry consolidation and the timing of new patents and know-how development. The year-to-year change was driven primarily by the same factors above, excluding the higher non-operating retirement-related costs. Interest expense is presented in cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings if the related external borrowings are to support the Global Financing external business. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards. Actual shares outstanding at March 31, 2018 were 918.0 million. The weighted-average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution during the first quarter of 2018 were 22.4 million shares lower than the first quarter of 2017. The decrease was primarily the result of the common stock repurchase program. Cash, marketable securities and restricted cash at quarter end were $13,155 million. The company continues to manage the investment portfolio to meet its capital preservation and liquidity objectives. Total debt of $46,387 million decreased $437 million from December 31, 2017, driven by debt maturities of $3,298 million, partially offset by new debt issuances of $2,198 million. Within total debt, $31,667 million, or approximately 68 percent, is in support of the Global Financing business. In the first three months of 2018, the company generated $4,602 million in cash from operations compared to $3,955 million in the first quarter of 2017. The company has consistently generated strong cash flow from operations and continues to have access to additional sources of liquidity through the capital markets and its credit facilities. The assets and debt associated with the Global Financing business are a significant part of the company’s financial position. The financial position amounts appearing on pages 5 and 6 are the consolidated amounts including Global Financing. At March 31, 2018, substantially all client and commercial financing assets were IT related assets, and approximately 53 percent of the total external portfolio was with investment grade clients with no direct exposure to consumers. This investment grade percentage is based on the credit ratings of the companies in the portfolio. The company has a long-standing practice of taking mitigating actions, in certain circumstances, to transfer credit risk to third parties, including credit insurance, financial guarantees, non-recourse borrowings, transfers of receivables recorded as true sales in accordance with accounting guidance or sales of equipment under operating lease. Adjusting for the mitigation actions, the investment grade content would increase by 17 points to 70 percent, an increase of 4 points year to year. The majority of the write-offs during the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to Global Financing receivables, which had been previously reserved. The increase was driven by additional provisions of $4 million and by the overall decline in gross receivables, partially offset by write-offs of $6 million of receivables previously reserved. Specific reserves decreased 1 percent from $258 million at December 31, 2017, to $255 million at March 31, 2018. Unallocated reserves increased 10 percent from $78 million at December 31, 2017, to $86 million at March 31, 2018. Global Financing’s bad debt expense was $4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $10 million for the same period in 2017. Additionally, the company maintains sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources as needed. Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company’s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. IBM Credit LLC began issuing public debt in September 2017. Non-Global Financing debt of $14,709 million was down $681 million from December 31, 2017 and up $403 million from March 31, 2017. Total debt changes generally correspond with the level of client and commercial financing receivables, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in intercompany and external payables and the change in intercompany investment from IBM. The terms of the intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term, currency and interest rate variability underlying the financing receivable and are based on arm’s-length pricing. Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company’s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. As previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as a stand-alone entity, and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting Global Financing’s external client and internal business is included in the “Global Financing Results of Operations” on page 58 and in note 7, “Segments,” on page 35. In the company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global Financing’s internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense. These amounts include the cash flows associated with the Global Financing business. A long-term perspective ensures that the company is well-positioned to take advantage of the major shifts in technology, business and the global economy. As part of its strategic model, the company expects to continue to allocate capital efficiently and effectively to investments, and to return value to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. Over the last several years, the company has been making investments and shifting resources, embedding AI and cloud into its offerings while building new solutions and modernizing its existing platforms. These investments not only drive current performance, but will extend the company’s innovation leadership into the future. The company’s key differentiators are built around three pillars - innovative technology, industry expertise and trust and security, uniquely delivered through an integrated model. Overall for full-year 2018, the company continues to expect revenue growth at mid-April spot rates, and margin stabilization driven by continued scale in the cloud business and yield from services’ productivity improvements. Consistent with the long-term model, the company also expects, over the course of 2018, to continue to acquire key capabilities, remix skills, invest in areas of growth and return value to shareholders. A high level of investment is important as the company continues to build its capabilities in AI, cloud, security and blockchain, among others. The actions taken in the first-quarter 2018 to reposition the business are aligned with this strategy. The company expects the annualized gross savings from the first-quarter workforce rebalancing actions to deliver two times the investment, with approximately 50 percent of that savings in the second-half 2018. As the company continues to scale efficiencies in the cloud and as-a-service businesses and with increased yield in services productivity, service margins are expected to expand in the second half. There is a mix headwind from the mainframe cycle expected in the second half. This is all taken into account in the full-year expectations. The company continues to expect free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2018. Free cash flow expectations include a year-to-year headwind from strong receivables collections in 2017, an approximate $600 million year-to-year headwind from cash tax payments and an expected increase in capital expenditures. The tax rates reflect the implementation of U.S. tax reform, which includes a lower U.S. corporate tax rate, offset by the broader tax base and reduced foreign tax credit utilization. The rate will change year to year based on discrete tax events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies. The company expects 2018 pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $3.2 billion, an increase of approximately $300 million compared to 2017. This estimate reflects current pension plan assumptions at December 31, 2017. Consistent with the newly adopted FASB guidance for the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, within total retirement-related plan cost, operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.5 billion, approximately flat versus 2017. Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.7 billion, an increase of approximately $300 million compared to 2017, driven by lower income from expected return on assets and a year-to-year impact due to the pension obligation adjustment resulting from the successful resolution of the UK pension litigation matter in 2017. Contributions for all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.4 billion in 2018, approximately flat compared to 2017. At March 31, 2018, currency changes resulted in assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into more dollars than at year-end 2017. The company uses financial hedging instruments to limit specific currency risks related to financing transactions and other foreign currency-based transactions. During periods of sustained movements in currency, the marketplace and competition adjust to the changing rates. For example, when pricing offerings in the marketplace, the company may use some of the advantage from a weakening U.S. dollar to improve its position competitively, and price more aggressively to win the business, essentially passing on a portion of the currency advantage to its customers. Competition will frequently take the same action. Consequently, the company believes that some of the currency-based changes in cost impact the prices charged to clients. The company translates revenue, cost and expense in its non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period. References to “adjusted for currency” or “constant currency” reflect adjustments based upon a simple mathematical formula. However, this constant currency methodology that the company utilizes to disclose this information does not incorporate any operational actions that management could take to mitigate fluctuating currency rates. Currency movements impacted the company’s year-to-year revenue and earnings per share growth in the first three months of 2018. Based on the currency rate movements in the first three months of 2018, total revenue increased 5.1 percent as reported and was flat at constant currency versus the first three months of 2017. The company views these amounts as a theoretical maximum impact to its as-reported financial results. Considering the operational responses mentioned above, movements of exchange rates, and the nature and timing of hedging instruments, it is difficult to predict future currency impacts on any particular period, but the company believes it could be substantially less than the theoretical maximum given the competitive pressure in the marketplace. For non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, translation adjustments are reflected in results of operations. Generally, the company manages currency risk in these entities by linking prices and contracts to U.S. dollars. The table presented on page 67 includes net cash from operating activities, cash and marketable securities and the size of the company’s global credit facilities for each of the past five years. For the three months ended, or as of, as applicable, March 31, 2018, those amounts are $4.6 billion for net cash from operating activities, $13.2 billion of cash, restricted cash and marketable securities and $15.3 billion in global credit facilities, respectively. The major rating agencies’ ratings on the company’s debt securities at March 31, 2018 appear in the table below. The ratings remain unchanged from December 31, 2017. The company does not have “ratings trigger” provisions in its debt covenants or documentation, which would allow the holders to declare an event of default and seek to accelerate payments thereunder in the event of a change in credit rating. The company’s contractual agreements governing derivative instruments contain standard market clauses which can trigger the termination of the agreement if the company’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade. At March 31, 2018, the fair value of those instruments that were in a liability position was $352 million, before any applicable netting, and this position is subject to fluctuations in fair value period to period based on the level of the company’s outstanding instruments and market conditions. The company has no other contractual arrangements that, in the event of a change in credit rating, would result in a material adverse effect on its financial position or liquidity. For the purpose of running its business, the company manages, monitors and analyzes cash flows in a different manner. Management uses free cash flow as a measure to evaluate its operating results, plan share repurchase levels, strategic investments and assess its ability and need to incur and service debt. The entire free cash flow amount is not necessarily available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less the change in Global Financing receivables and net capital expenditures, including the investment in software. A key objective of the Global Financing business is to generate strong returns on equity, and increasing receivables is the basis for growth. Accordingly, management considers Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment, not as working capital that should be minimized for efficiency. Free cash flow guidance is derived using an estimate of profit, working capital and operational cash outflows. As previously noted, the company views Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment which it seeks to maximize and therefore it is not considered when formulating guidance for free cash flow. As a result the company does not estimate a GAAP Net Cash from Operations expectation metric. The following is management’s view of cash flows for the first three months of 2018 and 2017 prepared in a manner
consistent with the description above. In the first three months of 2018, the company generated free cash flow of $1.3 billion, an increase of $0.3 billion versus the prior year. The increase was driven by performance in working capital, partially offset by higher cash taxes and higher capital expenditures. Net capital investments of $0.9 billion increased $0.1 billion year to year. Events that could temporarily change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed previously and in the company’s 2017 Annual Report include significant changes in operating results, material changes in geographic sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation, future pension funding requirements during periods of severe downturn in the capital markets or the timing of tax payments. Whether any litigation has such an adverse impact will depend on a number of variables, which are more completely described in note 12, “Contingencies,” in this Form 10-Q. With respect to pension funding, the company expects to make legally mandated pension plan contributions to certain non-U.S. plans of approximately $400 million in 2018. Contributions related to all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.4 billion in 2018. Financial market performance could increase the legally mandated minimum contributions in certain non-U.S. countries that require more frequent remeasurement of the funded status. The company is not quantifying any further impact from pension funding because it is not possible to predict future movements in the capital markets or pension plan funding regulations. In 2018, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit plans. The company’s U.S. cash flows continue to be sufficient to fund its current domestic operations and obligations, including investing and financing activities such as dividends and debt service. The company’s U.S. operations generate substantial cash flows, and, in those circumstances where the company has additional cash requirements in the U.S., the company has several liquidity options available. These options may include the ability to borrow additional funds at reasonable interest rates, utilizing its committed global credit facility, repatriating certain foreign earnings and utilizing intercompany loans with certain foreign subsidiaries. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Item 4. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. There has been no change in the company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Item 2. On October 31, 2017, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $3.0 billion in funds for use in such program. In each case, the company stated that it would repurchase shares on the open market or in private transactions depending on market conditions. The common stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date. This table does not include shares tendered to satisfy the exercise price in connection with cashless exercises of employee stock options or shares tendered to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with employee equity awards. As a result, Article III, Section 2 of the company’s By-Laws was amended to decrease the number of directors to thirteen, effective April 24, 2018. The full text of IBM’s By-Laws, as amended effective April 24, 2018, is included as Exhibit 3.2 to this report. Item 6.