Employer Identification No. We believe this format improves readability and better presents how we organize and manage our business. See "Form 10-Q Cross-Reference Index" within Other Key Information for a cross-reference index to the traditional SEC Form 10-Q format. We have included key metrics that we use to measure our business, some of which are non-GAAP measures. See these "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" within Other Key Information. Words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "goals," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "continues," "may," "will," "would," "should," "could," and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, projected growth of markets relevant to our businesses, uncertain events or assumptions, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on management's expectations as of the date of this filing and involve many risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include those described throughout this report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017, particularly the "Risk Factors" sections of such reports. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Form 10-Q and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission that disclose risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q do not reflect the potential impact of any divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of the date of this filing. In addition, the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q are made as of the date of this filing, and Intel does not undertake, and expressly disclaims any duty, to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, new developments or otherwise, except to the extent that disclosure may be required by law.INTEL UNIQUE TERMSWe use specific terms throughout this document to describe our business and results. Combined with our platform products, adjacent products form comprehensive platform solutions to meet customer needs. PC-CENTRIC BUSINESS Is made up of our CCG business, both platform and adjacent products. 1Table of ContentsA QUARTER IN REVIEWAfter five decades in the tech industry, we are poised to deliver another record year, our third in a row. We had record second quarter revenue and are continuing to transform the company from a PC-centric to a data-centric company. Our data-centric businesses collectively grew 26% from a year ago and are now approaching 50% of our revenue. Strong operating margin leverage and our lower tax rate resulted in GAAP and non-GAAP EPS growth, even as we continued investing in growth areas. We are now shipping the Intel® XMM™ 7560 modem, our first CDMA and first multi-SIM capable cellular modem, manufactured based on our 14nm process technology. CCG launched several new 8th Gen Intel® Core™ processors including the 8th Gen Intel Core i7-8086K limited-edition processor for gaming.•We released our annual Corporate Responsibility Report, highlighting our progress over the past year in environmental sustainability, supply chain responsibility, diversity and inclusion, and social impact. "We have made estimates and judgments affecting the amounts reported in our consolidated condensed financial statements and the accompanying notes. The actual results that we experience may differ materially from our estimates. The interim financial information is unaudited, but reflects all normal adjustments that are, in our opinion, necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented. This report should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements in our 2017 Form 10-K. In accordance with the revised standard, we have separated the different components of net periodic benefit cost, presenting service cost components within operating income and other non-service components separately outside of operating income on the income statement. Changes to the presentation of benefit costs were required to be adopted retrospectively, while changes to the capitalization of service costs into inventories were required to be adopted prospectively. Under the new model, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Under the new standard we now recognize revenue when we deliver to the distributor rather than deferring recognition until the distributor sells the components. On the date of initial application, we removed the deferred income and related receivables on component sales made to distributors through a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. We now recognize the expense for cooperative advertising in the period the marketing activities occur. Previously we recognized the expense in the period the customer was entitled to participate in the program, which coincided with the period of sale. On the date of initial adoption, we capitalized the expense of cooperative advertising not performed through a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. We have completed our adoption and implemented policies, processes, and controls to support the standard's measurement and disclosure requirements. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from product sales. In accordance with contract terms, revenue for product sales is recognized at the time of product shipment from our facilities or delivery to the customer location, as determined by the agreed upon shipping terms. We include shipping charges billed to customers in net revenue, and include the related shipping costs in cost of sales.We measure revenue based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for products or services. Any variable consideration is recognized as a reduction of net revenue at the time of revenue recognition. We determine variable consideration, which consists primarily of sales price concessions, by estimating the most likely amount of consideration we expect to receive from the customer based on historical analysis of customer purchase volumes. The impacts of distributor sales price reductions resulting from price protection agreements are also estimated based on historical analysis of such activity and are reflected as a reduction in net revenue. We make payments to our customers through cooperative advertising programs, such as our Intel Inside® program, for marketing activities for certain of our products. Changes to our marketable equity securities were required to be adopted using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings for the fiscal year beginning December 31, 2017. Equity securities measured and recorded using the measurement alternative are recorded at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from qualifying observable price changes. Adjustments resulting from impairments and qualifying observable price changes are recorded in the income statement.Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, in accordance with the standard, recurring fair value disclosures are no longer provided for equity securities measured using the measurement alternative. In addition, the existing impairment model has been replaced with a new one-step qualitative impairment model. No initial adoption adjustment was recorded for these instruments since the standard was required to be applied prospectively for securities measured using the measurement alternative.We have completed our adoption and implemented policies, processes, and controls to support the standard's measurement and disclosure requirements. Refer to the table below, which summarizes impacts, net of tax, of the changes discussed above to Intel's financial statements. This reflects an adjustment to opening balances for the fiscal year beginning December 31, 2017. Prior to fiscal 2018, these securities were measured and recorded at fair value and classified as available-for-sale securities. •Non-marketable equity securities are equity securities without RDFV that are measured and recorded using a measurement alternative which measures the securities at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from qualifying observable price changes. These securities were previously accounted for using the cost method of accounting, measured at cost less other-than-temporary impairment. •Equity method investments are equity securities in investees we do not control but over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence. Equity method investments are measured at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus our share of equity method investee income or loss. Our proportionate share of the income or loss from equity method investments is recognized on a one-quarter lag. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities is adjusted for qualifying observable price changes resulting from the issuance of similar or identical securities by the same issuer. Determining whether an observed transaction is similar to a security within our portfolio requires judgment based on the rights and preferences of the securities. Recording upward and downward adjustments to the carrying value of our equity securities as a result of observable price changes requires quantitative assessments of the fair value of our securities using various valuation methodologies and involves the use of estimates. Non-marketable equity securities and equity method investments are also subject to periodic impairment reviews. Our quarterly impairment analysis considers both qualitative and quantitative factors that may have a significant impact on the investee's fair value. Qualitative factors considered include industry and market conditions, the financial performance and near-term prospects of the investee, and other relevant events and factors affecting the investee. When indicators of impairment exist, we prepare quantitative assessments of the fair value of our equity investments using both the market and income approaches which require judgment and the use of estimates, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and comparable market data of private and public companies, among others. Prior to fiscal 2018, non-marketable equity securities were tested for impairment using the other-than-temporary impairment model which considered the severity and duration of a decline in fair value below cost and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery. A platform product may be enhanced by additional hardware, software, and services offered by Intel. Platform products are used in various form factors across our CCG, DCG, and IOTG operating segments. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from platform products, which are our principal products and considered as one class of product. CCG and DCG are our reportable operating segments. IOTG, NSG, and PSG do not meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable operating segments; however, we have elected to disclose the results of these non-reportable operating segments. Operating segments do not record inter-segment revenue. We do not allocate gains and losses from equity investments, interest and other income, or taxes to operating segments. Although the CODM uses operating income to evaluate the segments, operating costs included in one segment may benefit other segments. We computed diluted earnings per share of common stock based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding plus potentially dilutive shares of common stock outstanding during the period. In December 2017, we paid cash to satisfy the conversion of our 2035 debentures, which we excluded from our dilutive earnings per share computation starting in the fourth quarter of 2017 and are no longer dilutive. Our 2039 debentures require settlement of the principal amount of the debt in cash upon conversion. Since the conversion premium is paid in cash or stock at our option, we determined the potentially dilutive shares of common stock by applying the treasury stock method. As of June 30, 2018, we paid cash to satisfy the conversion of a portion of our 2039 debentures. The potentially dilutive shares associated with the converted portion are excluded from our diluted earnings per share computation in the first six months of 2018 as they are no longer dilutive. In all periods presented, potentially dilutive outstanding securities which would have been antidilutive are insignificant and are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share. In all periods presented, we included our outstanding 2039 debentures in the calculation of diluted earnings per share of common stock because the average market price was above the conversion price. As new prepaid supply agreements are entered into and performance obligations are negotiated, this component of the contract liability balance will increase, and as customers purchase product and utilize their prepaid balances, the balance will decrease. The short-term portion of prepayments from supply agreements is reported on the consolidated condensed balance sheets within other accrued liabilities. The long-term supply agreements represent $5.0 billion in future anticipated revenues with 4% expected to be recognized during the current year and the remainder ratably over the next five years. In the second quarter of 2018, we completed the divestiture of Wind River Systems, Inc. and recognized a pre-tax gain of $494 million. Our accounting remains incomplete as of the second quarter of 2018 and will be refined throughout 2018 based on our ongoing analysis of data and tax positions along with new guidance from regulators and interpretation of the law. Our estimated annual effective tax rate for the first six months of 2018 includes provisional tax estimates for certain Tax Reform provisions related to foreign-derived intangible income and low-taxed intangible income. We expect that these provisions will be clarified by additional analysis and regulatory guidance, and the clarification could impact our estimated annual effective tax rate. Our effective income tax rate was 10.2% in the first six months of 2018 compared to 31.2% in the first six months of 2017. Tax Reform reduced the U.S. statutory federal tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%, which favorably impacted our effective tax rate in the first six months of 2018 by approximately eight percentage points. Further, the Tax Reform provisions related to foreign-derived intangible income favorably impacted our effective tax rate by approximately three percentage points, and the provision related to low-taxed intangible income and the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction each unfavorably impacted our effective tax rate by approximately one percentage point. The decrease in the first six months of 2018 was also driven by one-time items, primarily associated with the $822 million tax expense in the second quarter of 2017 due to our divestiture of ISecG, which increased our effective tax rate in the first six months of 2017 by approximately nine percentage points, and the adjustment to our provisional estimates for Tax Reform in the first six months of 2018, which reduced our effective tax rate by approximately two percentage points. Financial institution instruments include instruments issued or managed by financial institutions in various forms such as commercial paper, fixed and floating rate bonds, money market fund deposits, and time deposits. During the second quarter of 2017, we determined we had an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of our investment and recognized an impairment charge of $278 million. During 2015, we invested $966 million to complete the first phase of the equity investment and accounted for our interest using the cost method of accounting. On July 16, 2018, Intel and Micron announced that they agreed to complete joint development for the second generation of 3D XPoint technology, which is expected to occur in the first half of 2019. Technology development beyond the second generation of 3D XPoint technology will be pursued independently by the two companies in order to optimize the technology for their respective product and business needs. Intel continues to purchase jointly developed products from Micron under certain supply agreements. As of June 30, 2018, we own a 49% interest in IMFT. Intel has the right to cause Micron to buy our interest in IMFT and, if exercised, Micron could elect to receive financing from us for one to two years. Commencing in January 2019, Micron has the right to call our interest in IMFT with the closing date to be effective within one year.IMFT is a variable interest entity and all costs of IMFT are passed on to Micron and Intel through sale of products or services in proportional share of ownership. In the event that IMFT has excess cash, IMFT will make payments to Micron and Intel in the form of dividends. IMFT depends on Micron and Intel for any additional cash needs. The MDF balance may be converted to a capital contribution at our request, or may be repaid upon availability of funds. Our known maximum exposure to loss approximated the carrying value of our investment balance in IMFT. Our potential future losses could be higher than the carrying amount of our investment, as Intel and Micron are liable for other future operating costs or obligations of IMFT and future cash calls. In addition, because we are currently committed to purchasing 49% of IMFT’s production output and production-related services, we may be required to purchase products at a cost in excess of realizable value.We have determined that we do not have the characteristics of a consolidating investor in the variable interest entity and therefore, we account for our interest in IMFT using the equity method of accounting. Level 2 investments consist primarily of commercial paper, certificates of deposit, time deposits, and notes and bonds issued by financial institutions.2 Level 1 investments consist primarily of U.S. Treasury securities. If an observable price adjustment or impairment is recognized on our non-marketable equity securities during the period, we classify these assets as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy based on the nature of the fair value inputs. These assets were classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy based on the nature of the fair value inputs. These liabilities are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy based on the nature of the fair value inputs. Substantially all of our cash flow hedges were foreign currency contracts for all periods presented.During the first six months of 2018 and 2017, the amounts excluded from effectiveness testing were insignificant. Our plans include our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan and our 2006 Stock Purchase Plan. The grant-date fair value of awards that vested in the first six months of 2018 was $1.1 billion. The number of RSUs vested includes shares of common stock that we withheld on behalf of employees to satisfy the minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. STOCK PURCHASE PLANThe 2006 Stock Purchase Plan allows eligible employees to purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the value of our common stock on specific dates. Rights to purchase shares of common stock are granted during the first and third quarters of each year. Although management at present believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not materially harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or overall trends, legal proceedings and related government investigations are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings or other events could occur. Unfavorable resolutions could include substantial monetary damages. In addition, in matters for which injunctive relief or other conduct remedies are sought, unfavorable resolutions could include an injunction or other order prohibiting us from selling one or more products at all or in particular ways, precluding particular business practices, or requiring other remedies. An unfavorable outcome may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. We might also conclude that settling one or more such matters is in the best interests of our stockholders, employees, and customers, and any such settlement could include substantial payments. We received numerous requests for information and documents from the EC and we responded to each of those requests. The EC issued a Statement of Objections in July 2007 and held a hearing on that Statement in March 2008. The EC issued a Supplemental Statement of Objections in July 2008. In May 2009, the EC issued a decision finding that we had violated Article 82 of the EC Treaty and Article 54 of the European Economic Area Agreement. The EC also found that we violated Article 82 by making alleged "payments to prevent sales of specific rival products." Instead, the decision stated that we should "cease and desist" from further conduct that, in the EC's opinion, would violate applicable law. We took steps, which are subject to the EC's ongoing review, to comply with that decision pending appeal. The hearing of our appeal took place in July 2012. In June 2014, the General Court rejected our appeal in its entirety. In August 2014, we filed an appeal with the European Court of Justice. In November 2014, Intervener Association for Competitive Technologies filed comments in support of Intel’s grounds of appeal. The EC and interveners filed briefs in November 2014, we filed a reply in February 2015, and the EC filed a rejoinder in April 2015. The Court of Justice held oral argument in June 2016. In October 2016, Advocate General Wahl, an advisor to the Court of Justice, issued a non-binding advisory opinion that favored Intel on a number of grounds. The Court of Justice issued its decision in September 2017, setting aside the judgment of the General Court and sending the case back to the General Court to examine whether the rebates at issue were capable of restricting competition. The General Court has appointed a panel of five judges to consider our appeal of the EC’s 2009 decision in light of the Court of Justice’s clarifications of the law. In November 2017, the parties filed initial “Observations” about the Court of Justice’s decision and the appeal, and were invited by the General Court to offer supplemental comments to each other’s “Observations,” which the parties submitted in March 2018. The complaint alleges that the defendants breached their duties to the company by participating in, or allowing, purported antitrust violations that were alleged in a now-settled antitrust class action lawsuit captioned In re High Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation claiming that Intel, Adobe Systems Incorporated, Apple Inc., Google Inc., Intuit Inc., Lucasfilm Ltd., and Pixar conspired to suppress their employees’ compensation. In March 2014, a second plaintiff, Barbara Templeton, filed a substantially similar derivative suit in the same court. In May 2014, a third shareholder, Robert Achermann, filed a substantially similar derivative action in the same court. The court consolidated the three actions into one, which is captioned In re Intel Corporation Shareholder Derivative Litigation. Plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint in July 2014. In August 2015, the court granted our motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint. The plaintiffs thereafter filed a motion for reconsideration and a motion for new trial, both of which the court denied in October 2015. In November 2015, plaintiffs PRSSL and Templeton appealed the court's decision. The lawsuit makes allegations substantially similar to those in the California shareholder derivative litigation described above, but additionally alleges breach of the duty of disclosure with respect to In re High Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation and that Intel's 2013 and 2014 proxy statements misrepresented the effectiveness of the Board’s oversight of compliance issues at Intel and the Board’s compliance with Intel’s Code of Conduct and Board of Director Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues. In October 2015, the court stayed the IBEW lawsuit for six months pending further developments in the California case. In March 2016, Intel and IBEW entered into a stipulated dismissal pursuant to which IBEW dismissed its complaint but may re-file upon the withdrawal or final resolution of the appeal in the PRSSL California shareholder derivative litigation.In April 2016, John Esposito filed a shareholder derivative action in the Superior Court of California in Santa Clara County against Intel, current members of our Board of Directors, and certain former officers and employees. Esposito made a demand on our Board in 2013 to investigate whether our officers or directors should be sued for their participation in the events described in In re High Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation. In November 2015, our Board decided not to take further action on Esposito’s demand based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee of the Board after its investigation of relevant facts and circumstances. Esposito seeks to set aside such decision, and alleges that the Board was not disinterested in making that decision and that the investigation was inadequate. In November 2016, the court granted Intel’s motion to dismiss the case, without leave to amend. In March 2017, plaintiff filed a motion for fees. The court denied plaintiff’s fee motion in May 2017, and entered final judgment in this matter in June 2017. In August 2017, Esposito appealed the final judgment but withdrew the appeal in June 2018, ending the case.McAfee, Inc. Four McAfee shareholders filed putative class-action lawsuits in Santa Clara County, California Superior Court challenging the proposed transaction. The cases were ordered consolidated in September 2010. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint that named former McAfee board members, McAfee, and Intel as defendants, and alleged that the McAfee board members breached their fiduciary duties and that McAfee and Intel aided and abetted those breaches of duty. The complaint requested rescission of the merger agreement, such other equitable relief as the court may deem proper, and an award of damages in an unspecified amount. In March 2012, defendants filed a petition with the California Court of Appeal for a writ of mandate to reverse the class certification order; the petition was denied in June 2012. In March 2012, at defendants’ request, the court held that plaintiffs were not entitled to a jury trial and ordered a bench trial. In April 2012, plaintiffs filed a petition with the California Court of Appeal for a writ of mandate to reverse that order, which the court of appeal denied in July 2012. In August 2012, defendants filed a motion for summary judgment. The trial court granted that motion in November 2012, and entered final judgment in the case in February 2013. In April 2013, plaintiffs appealed the final judgment. The California Court of Appeal heard oral argument in October 2017, and in November 2017, affirmed the judgment as to McAfee's nine outside directors, reversed the judgment as to former McAfee director and chief executive officer David DeWalt, Intel, and McAfee, and affirmed the trial court's ruling that the plaintiffs are not entitled to a jury trial. At a June 2018 case management conference following remand, the Superior Court set an October hearing date for any additional summary judgment motions that may be filed, and set trial to begin in December 2018. Plaintiffs subsequently filed a motion for leave to amend the complaint which is set for hearing in September 2018. Because the resolution of pretrial motions may materially impact the scope and nature of the proceeding, and because of uncertainties regarding theories that may be asserted at trial following the appellate court's remand of only certain claims in the proceeding and the extent of Intel's responsibility, if any, with respect to such claims, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the potential loss or range of losses, if any, arising from this matter. As is standard when findings like these are presented, we worked together with other companies in the industry to verify the research and develop and validate software and firmware updates for impacted technologies. On January 3, 2018, information on the security vulnerabilities was publicly reported, before software and firmware updates to address the vulnerabilities were made widely available. Numerous lawsuits have been filed against Intel and, in certain cases, our executives and directors, in U.S. federal and state courts and in certain courts in other countries relating to the Spectre and Meltdown security vulnerabilities.As of July 25, 2018, 46 consumer class action lawsuits and three securities class action lawsuits have been filed. Of the consumer class action lawsuits, 42 have been filed in the United States, two in Canada, and two in Israel. In April 2018, the United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ordered the U.S. consumer class action lawsuits consolidated for pretrial proceedings in the United States District Court for the District of Oregon. The lead securities class action plaintiffs, who purport to represent classes of acquirers of Intel stock between October 27, 2017 and January 9, 2018, generally allege that Intel and certain officers violated securities laws by making statements about Intel's products that were revealed to be false or misleading by the disclosure of the security vulnerabilities. The securities class actions are pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. Additional lawsuits and claims may be asserted on behalf of customers and shareholders seeking monetary damages or other related relief. We dispute the claims described above and intend to defend the lawsuits vigorously. Given the procedural posture and the nature of these cases, including that the proceedings are in the early stages, that alleged damages have not been specified, that uncertainty exists as to the likelihood of a class or classes being certified or the ultimate size of any class or classes if certified, and that there are significant factual and legal issues to be resolved, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the potential loss or range of losses, if any, that might arise from these matters.In addition to these lawsuits, Intel stockholders have filed seven shareholder derivative lawsuits since January 2018 against certain current and former members of our Board of Directors and certain current and former officers, alleging that the defendants breached their duties to Intel in connection with the disclosure of the security vulnerabilities and the failure to take action in relation to alleged insider trading. The complaints seek to recover damages from the defendants on behalf of Intel. Three of the derivative actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and have been consolidated. Defendants moved to dismiss those actions on the ground that plaintiffs’ failure to make a pre-lawsuit demand on the Board was not excused. The hearing on that motion is scheduled for August 2018. Four of the derivative actions were filed in the Superior Court of the State of California in San Mateo County and have been consolidated. Defendants moved to stay the state court derivative actions pending resolution of the federal derivative actions and also moved to dismiss the state court actions on the ground that plaintiffs’ failure to make a pre-lawsuit demand on the Board was not excused. We had record second quarter revenue and are continuing to transform the company from a PC-centric to a data-centric company. Our data-centric businesses collectively grew 26% from a year ago and are now approaching 50% of our revenue. Strong operating margin leverage and our lower tax rate resulted in GAAP and non-GAAP EPS growth, even as we continued investing in growth areas. For a more comprehensive overview of the results of our operations, see "A Quarter in Review." The increase in revenue was primarily driven by strong performance across our data-centric businesses, which collectively grew 26% year over year. Mobileye, which we acquired in Q3 2017, recognized $173 million in revenue, contributing to the growth of our data-centric businesses. Our PC-centric business also grew 6%. YTD 2018 vs. YTD 2017Our YTD 2018 revenue was $33.0 billion, up $3.5 billion, or 12% from YTD 2017. We are executing to our strategy of growing data-centric businesses, which collectively grew revenue by 20% in the first half of 2018 compared to first half of 2017. Our recently acquired Mobileye business recognized $324 million in revenue, contributing to the growth of our data-centric businesses. Our PC-centric business also grew 5%. Our overall gross margin dollars in Q2 2018 increased by $1.3 billion compared to Q2 2017. We had heightened demand for data intensive workloads and macroeconomic momentum in cloud, improved market conditions in enterprise and government, and increased market segment share with communication service providers. These market-driven solutions utilize silicon and software assets from our data center and client businesses to expand our compute footprint into Internet of Things market segments. Revenue grew due to strength across the retail, industrial, and other market segments. Operating income was $243 million, up $104 million driven by higher revenue. YTD 2018 vs. YTD 2017Net revenue was $1.7 billion, up $279 million, driven primarily by $453 million higher IOTG platform unit sales, partially offset by $235 million lower IOTG platform ASPs. Revenue grew due to strength across the retail, industrial, and other market segments. Operating income was $470 million, up $226 million driven by higher revenue, lower costs from lower factory startup and the mix of our processors, and lower spending as autonomous driving investment shifted to other businesses. The primary customers are enterprise and cloud-based data centers, users of business and consumer desktops and laptops, and a variety of embedded and Internet of Things application providers. YTD 2018 vs. YTD 2017Net revenue was $2.1 billion, up $379 million, driven by $1.2 billion higher unit sales due to continued demand in data center and the growth of component and Intel Optane technology products, offset by $859 million lower ASP due to market condition and mix of products. Operating loss was $146 million, down $93 million, as our TLC NAND and 64-Layer product lines continued to ramp, driving higher unit sales and lower unit cost, which more than offset the decline in ASP. PSG REVENUE PSG OPERATING INCOMERevenue and Operating Income SummaryQ2 2018 vs. Q2 2017PSG revenue was $517 million, up $77 million year over year, driven by strength in the data center market segment and growth of our advanced products, based on 28nm, 20nm, and 14nm process technologies, which collectively grew roughly 70% in the quarter. Operating income was $101 million, up $4 million year over year.YTD 2018 vs. YTD 2017PSG revenue was $1.0 billion, up $150 million, driven by strength in the data center and embedded market segments as well as last-time buys of our legacy products and growth of our advanced products, based on 28nm, 20nm, and 14nm process technologies. Operating income was $198 million, up $9 million. We recognized $802 million of net realized gains on sales in Q2 2017 and $1.1 billion in the first six months of 2017, primarily related to sales of a portion of our interest in ASML. We recognized a net gain in Q2 2017 and for the first six months of 2017 primarily due to a $387 million gain on the divestiture of ISecG in Q2 2017.For the six months ended June 30, 2018, we paid $1.2 billion to satisfy conversion obligations for $476 million of our $2.0 billion 3.25% junior subordinated 2039 convertible debentures. The reduction in the U.S statutory federal tax rate favorably impacted our effective tax rate by approximately eight percentage points. Further, the Tax Reform provisions related to foreign-derived intangible income favorably impacted our effective tax rate by approximately three percentage points, and the provision related to low-taxed intangible income and the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction each unfavorably impacted our effective tax rate by approximately one percentage point. The decrease was also driven by one-time items, primarily associated with the $822 million tax expense in Q2 2017 due to our divestiture of ISecG, which increased our effective tax rate in the first six months of 2017 by approximately nine percentage points, and the adjustment to our provisional estimates for Tax Reform in the first six months of 2018, which reduced our effective tax rate by approximately two percentage points. We maintain a diverse investment portfolio that we continually analyze based on issuer, industry, and country. When assessing our sources of liquidity we include investments as shown in the preceding table. Substantially all of our investments in debt instruments and financing receivables are in investment-grade securities.Other potential sources of liquidity include our commercial paper program and our automatic shelf registration statement on file with the SEC, pursuant to which we may offer an unspecified amount of debt, equity, and other securities. Under our commercial paper program, we have an ongoing authorization from our Board of Directors to borrow up to $10.0 billion. As of June 30, 2018, $2.0 billion of commercial paper remained outstanding. We believe we have sufficient financial resources to meet our business requirements in the next 12 months, including capital expenditures for worldwide manufacturing and assembly and test; working capital requirements; and potential dividends, common stock repurchases, acquisitions, and strategic investments. The increase was partially offset by net trading asset activity. Financing ActivitiesFinancing cash flows consist primarily of repurchases of common stock, payment of dividends to stockholders, issuance and repayment of short-term and long-term debt, and proceeds from the sale of shares of common stock through employee equity incentive plans.Cash was used for financing activities in the first six months of 2018 compared to cash provided by financing activities for the first six months of 2017 primarily due to no new long-term debt issuance, increased repurchases of common stock, and conversion of a portion of our 2039 debentures; these were partially offset by increases in short-term debt.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKWe are affected by changes in currency exchange and interest rates, as well as equity and commodity prices. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face—our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Due to risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, our past financial results may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Below, we have updated the risk factor included in our 2017 Form 10-K titled “We are subject to cybersecurity and privacy risks—Third parties regularly attempt to gain unauthorized access to our network, products, services, and infrastructure.” The Risk Factors section in our 2017 Form 10-K otherwise remains current in all material respects.Third parties regularly attempt to gain unauthorized access to our network, products, services, and infrastructure. We regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet or to introduce malicious software to our IT systems. Additionally, individuals or organizations, including malicious hackers or intruders into our physical facilities, may attempt to gain unauthorized access and corrupt the processes of hardware and software products that we manufacture and services we provide. Due to the widespread use of our products, we are a frequent target of computer hackers and organizations that intend to sabotage, take control of, or otherwise corrupt our manufacturing or other processes, products, and services. We are also a target of malicious attackers who attempt to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our customers or end users; steal proprietary information related to our business, products, employees, and customers; or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. Such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication. From time to time, we encounter intrusions or unauthorized access to our network, products, services, or infrastructure. To date, none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business or operations. Such incidents, whether or not successful, could result in our incurring significant costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, writing down inventory value, implementing additional threat protection measures, providing modifications to our products and services, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, providing customers with incentives to maintain the business relationship, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. In addition, these threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. In some instances, we, our customers, and the users of our products and services may be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. We or third parties regularly identify security vulnerabilities with respect to our processors and other products as well as the operating systems and workloads running on them. For example, a type of security vulnerability known as a side-channel exploit has been identified. Side-channel exploits include the variants referred to as “Spectre” and “Meltdown.” Additional variants have been identified and may continue to be identified. As we have become a more data-centric company, our processors and other products are being used in more and different critical application areas that create new or increased cybersecurity and privacy risks. In addition, publicity about security vulnerabilities and attempted or successful exploits, whether accurate or inaccurate, may result in increased attempts by third parties to identify additional vulnerabilities. Although vulnerabilities have often been discovered and mitigated in advance of being exploited, it is possible that vulnerabilities may not be mitigated before they become known. We, our customers, and the users of our products may not promptly learn of or be able to fully assess the magnitude or effects of a vulnerability, including the extent, if any, to which a vulnerability has been exploited. Subsequent events or new information could develop which changes our assessment of the impact of a security vulnerability, including additional information learned as we develop and deploy mitigations or updates, become aware of additional variants, evaluate the competitiveness of existing and new products, address future warranty or other claims or customer satisfaction considerations, as well as developments in the course of any litigation or regulatory inquiries or actions over these matters. Mitigation techniques designed to address security vulnerabilities, including software and firmware updates or other preventative measures, may not be available on a timely basis, or at all, may not operate as intended, or may not effectively resolve vulnerabilities for all applications. In addition, we may be required to rely on third parties, including hardware, software, and services vendors, as well as our customers and end users, to develop and deploy mitigation techniques, and the availability, effectiveness, and performance impact of mitigation techniques may depend solely or in part on the actions of these third parties in determining whether and how to develop and deploy mitigations. OTHER KEY INFORMATION 39Table of ContentsSecurity vulnerabilities and any limitations of, or adverse effects resulting from, mitigation techniques can adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, customer relationships, prospects, and reputation in a number of ways, any of which may be material. For example, whether or not they involve attempted or successful exploits, they may result in our incurring significant costs related to developing and deploying updates and mitigations, writing down inventory value, defending against product claims and litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, addressing customer satisfaction considerations, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. Adverse publicity about security vulnerabilities or mitigations could damage our reputation with customers or users and reduce demand for our products and services. These effects may be greater to the extent that competing products are not susceptible to the same vulnerabilities or if vulnerabilities can be more effectively mitigated in competing products. Moreover, third parties may release information regarding potential vulnerabilities of our products before mitigations are available, which, in turn, could lead to attempted or successful exploits, adversely affect our ability to introduce mitigations, or otherwise harm our business and reputation. For example, information on the “Spectre” and “Meltdown” side-channel variants was prematurely reported publicly before mitigation techniques to address all vulnerabilities were made widely available, and certain of the mitigation techniques did not operate as intended. A control system, no matter how well-designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURESWe believe non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with useful supplemental information about the financial performance of our business, enable comparison of financial results between periods where certain items may vary independent of business performance, and allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in operating our business and measuring our performance. Our non-GAAP operating income and diluted earnings per share reflect adjustments for the following items, as well as the related income tax effects. Income tax effects have been calculated using an appropriate tax rate for each adjustment. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets consists of amortization of intangible assets such as developed technology, brands, and customer relationships acquired in connection with business combinations. We record charges related to the amortization of these intangibles within both cost of sales and operating expenses in our GAAP financial statements. Amortization charges for our acquisition-related intangible assets are inconsistent in size and are significantly impacted by the timing and valuation of our acquisitions. Other charges include asset impairments, pension charges, and costs associated with the ISecG divestiture. We exclude restructuring and other charges, including any adjustments to charges recorded in prior periods, for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures. We believe that these costs do not reflect our current operating performance. Consequently, our non-GAAP adjustments exclude these charges to facilitate an evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. We exclude gains or losses, and related tax impacts, resulting from divestitures when calculating certain non-GAAP measures. We exclude this provisional tax adjustment when calculating certain non-GAAP measures. In our consolidated condensed financial statements, we treat shares of common stock withheld for tax purposes on behalf of our employees in connection with the vesting of RSUs as common stock repurchases because they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued upon vesting. Mine Safety DisclosuresNot applicableItem 5. OTHER KEY INFORMATION 44Table of ContentsSIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.