See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. The acquisition of Linear is referred to as the Acquisition. The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date. See Note 13, Acquisitions, of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.Certain amounts reported in previous periods have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2018 presentation. As a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, excess tax benefits from share-based payments are presented within operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The Company applied this change in presentation retrospectively and has adjusted the prior year presentation by removing the reclass of $30.2 million of excess tax benefit-stock options from net cash provided by operating activities to net cash provided by financing activities. All other reclassified amounts are immaterial. The Company has a 52-53 week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October. Fiscal 2018 is a 53-week fiscal year and fiscal 2017 was a 52-week fiscal year. The additional week in fiscal 2018 was included in the first quarter ended February 3, 2018. Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.Note 2 – Revenue RecognitionRevenue from product sales to customers is generally recognized when title passes, which is upon shipment in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries. Revenue from product sales to customers in other foreign countries is recognized subsequent to product shipment. Title for shipments to these other foreign countries ordinarily passes within a week of shipment. Accordingly, the Company defers the revenue recognized relating to these other foreign countries until title has passed. For multiple element arrangements, the Company allocates arrangement consideration among the elements based on the relative fair values of those elements as determined using vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence. The Company uses its best estimate of selling price to allocate arrangement consideration between the deliverables in cases where neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third-party evidence is available. A reserve for sales returns and allowances for customers is recorded based on historical experience or specific identification of an event necessitating a reserve.Revenue from contracts with the United States government, government prime contractors and some commercial customers is generally recorded on a percentage of completion basis using either units delivered or costs incurred as the measurement basis for progress towards completion. The output measure is used to measure results directly and is generally the best measure of progress toward completion in circumstances in which a reliable measure of output can be established. Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables. Contract accounting requires judgment in estimating costs and assumptions related to technical issues and delivery schedule. Contract costs include material, subcontractor costs, labor and an allocation of indirect costs. The estimation of costs at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract. Changes in contract performance, estimated gross margin, including the impact of final contract settlements, and estimated losses are recognized in the period in which the changes or losses are determined.Product sales to certain international distributors are made under agreements that permit limited stock return privileges but not sales price rebates. Revenue on these sales is recognized upon shipment at which time title passes. 5The Company defers revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to U.S. distributors and certain international distributors until the distributors resell the products to their customers. As a result, the Company’s revenue fully reflects end customer purchases and is not impacted by distributor inventory levels. Sales to certain of these distributors are made under agreements that allow such distributors to receive price-adjustment credits, as discussed below, and to return qualifying products for credit, as determined by the Company, in order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or obsolete product from their inventory. These agreements limit such returns to a certain percentage of the value of the Company’s shipments to that distributor during the prior quarter. In addition, such distributors are allowed to return unsold products if the Company terminates the relationship with the distributor. As distributors negotiate selling prices with their customers, the final sales price agreed upon with the customer will be influenced by many factors, including the particular product being sold, the quantity ordered, the particular customer, the geographic location of the distributor and the competitive landscape. As a result, the distributor may request and receive a price-adjustment credit from the Company to allow the distributor to earn an appropriate margin on the transaction.Certain distributors are also granted price-adjustment credits in the event of a price decrease subsequent to the date the product was shipped and billed to the distributor. Therefore, the Company defers revenue recognition from sales to certain distributors until the distributors have sold the products to their customers.Generally, title to the inventory transfers to the distributor at the time of shipment or delivery to the distributor, and payment from the distributor is due in accordance with the Company’s standard payment terms. These payment terms are not contingent upon the distributors’ sale of the products to their customers. Shipping costs are charged to cost of sales as incurred.The deferred costs of sales to distributors have historically had very little risk of impairment due to the margins the Company earns on sales of its products and the relatively long life-cycle of the Company’s products. Product returns from distributors that are ultimately scrapped have historically been immaterial. In addition, price protection and price-adjustment credits granted to distributors historically have not exceeded the margins the Company earns on sales of its products. The Company continuously monitors the level and nature of product returns and is in frequent contact with the distributors to ensure reserves are established for all known material issues.As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the Company had gross deferred revenue of $679.9 million and $589.5 million, respectively, and gross deferred cost of sales of $132.6 million and $115.5 million, respectively. The Company generally offers a twelve-month warranty for its products. The Company’s warranty policy provides for replacement of defective products. Specific accruals are recorded for known product warranty issues. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years. The total grant-date fair value of shares that vested during the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 was approximately $28.2 million and $112.7 million, respectively. For further information see Note 13, Retirement Plans, contained in Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017.The Company estimates $4.5 million, net of tax, of losses of forward foreign currency derivative instruments included in OCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. There was no material ineffectiveness recorded within OCI related to designated forward foreign currency derivative instruments in the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.As of August 4, 2018, the Company held 14 investment securities, 6 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $65.0 million. As of October 28, 2017, the Company held 18 investment securities, 8 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $143.9 million. These unrealized losses were primarily related to corporate obligations that earn lower interest rates than current market rates. None of these investments have been in a loss position for more than twelve months. There were no material net realized gains or losses from the sales of available-for-sale investments during any of the fiscal periods presented.Note 5 – Earnings Per ShareBasic earnings per share is computed based only on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method. In calculating diluted earnings per share, the dilutive effect of 9stock options and restricted stock units is computed using the average market price for the respective period. In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the average unrecognized compensation expense of stock options that are in-the-money and restricted stock units. This results in the “assumed” buyback of additional shares, thereby reducing the dilutive impact of in-the-money stock options. Potential shares related to certain of the Company’s outstanding stock options and restricted stock units were excluded because they were anti-dilutive. Those potential shares, determined based on the weighted average exercise prices during the respective periods, could be dilutive in the future. In connection with the Acquisition, the Company granted restricted stock awards to replace outstanding restricted stock awards of Linear employees. These restricted stock awards entitle recipients to voting and nonforfeitable dividend rights from the date of grant. These unvested stock-based compensation awards are considered participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating earnings per share. Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to these participating securities and therefore is excluded from the calculation of earnings per share allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below. As a result of these assessments, the Company has undertaken various restructuring actions over the past several years. These actions are described below.The following tables display the special charges taken for ongoing actions and a roll-forward from October 28, 2017 to August 4, 2018 of the employee separation and exit cost accruals established related to these actions. Over the next three to five years, the Company plans to close its Hillview wafer fabrication facility located in Milpitas, California and its Singapore test facility. The Company intends to transfer Hillview wafer fabrication production to its other internal facilities and to external foundries. In addition, the Company is planning to transition testing operations currently handled in its Singapore facility to its facilities in Penang, Malaysia and the Philippines, in addition to its outsourced assembly and test partners. During the second and third quarters of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded special charges totaling $2.2 million in the aggregate related to one-time termination benefits for employees included in this action. These one-time termination benefits are being recognized over the future service period required for employees to earn these benefits. Employees included in this action must continue to be employed by the Company until their employment is terminated in order to receive the severance benefits. As of August 4, 2018, the Company still employed 5 of the 123 employees included in this cost reduction action. As of August 4, 2018, the Company still employed 2 of the 177 employees included in this cost reduction action. As of August 4, 2018, the Company still employed 7 of the 126 employees included in this cost reduction action. These employees must continue to be employed by the Company until their employment is terminated in order to receive the severance benefits.The accrual related to these actions is included in accrued liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of August 4, 2018.11Early Retirement Offer ActionDuring the first quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company initiated an early retirement offer. As of August 4, 2018, the Company still employed 2 of the 225 employees included in these cost reduction actions. These employees must continue to be employed by the Company until their employment is terminated in order to receive the severance benefits. The accrual related to this action is included in accrued liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of August 4, 2018. Note 7 – Segment InformationIn the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company completed organizational changes designed to integrate the operations of Linear into the Company’s organizational structure and to reflect the evolution of the Company's markets. As a result of these organizational changes, the Company re-evaluated its reporting structure under the new organization and concluded that the Company continues to operate in one reportable segment based on the aggregation of eight operating segments. The Chief Executive Officer has been identified as the Company's Chief Operating Decision Maker. Many of these customers use products spanning all operating segments in a wide range of applications.•The ICs marketed by each of the Company's operating segments are sold globally through a direct sales force, third-party distributors, independent sales representatives and via the Company's website to the same types of customers.All of the Company's operating segments share similar economic characteristics, including long-term gross margins. Additionally, each operating segment is subject to the overall cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. Lastly, the number and composition of employees and the amounts and types of tools and materials required for production of products are proportionately similar for each operating segment.Revenue Trends by End MarketThe following table summarizes revenue by end market for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017. The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which the Company’s product will be incorporated. As data systems for capturing and tracking this data evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time. When this occurs, the Company reclassifies revenue by end market for prior periods. Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market. Note 8 – Fair ValueThe Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Company applies the following fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level of input that is available and significant to the fair value measurement. The tables exclude cash on hand and assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost or any basis other than fair value. As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the Company held $375.1 million and $296.2 million, respectively, of cash and held-to-maturity investments that were excluded from the tables below. See Note 9, Derivatives, of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to the Company's master netting arrangements. The fair value of these instruments is based upon valuation models using current market information such as strike price, spot rate, maturity date and volatility.Interest rate derivatives — The fair value of the interest rate derivatives is estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on the contractual terms of the derivative.Contingent consideration — The fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated utilizing the income approach and is based upon significant inputs not observable in the market. The income approach is based on two steps. The first step involves a projection of the cash flows that is based on the Company’s estimates of the timing and probability of achieving the defined milestones. The second step involves converting the cash flows into a present value equivalent through discounting. The discount rate reflects the Baa costs of debt plus the relevant risk associated with the asset and the time value of money.Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring BasisThe table below presents the estimated fair value of certain financial instruments not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. The carrying amounts of the term loans approximate fair value. The term loans are classified as Level 2 measurements according to the fair value hierarchy. The fair values of the senior unsecured notes are obtained from broker prices and are classified as Level 1 measurements according to the fair value hierarchy. Such exposures result from the portion of the Company’s operations, assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other 15than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Euro; other significant exposures include the Philippine Peso, the Japanese Yen and the British Pound. These foreign currency exchange contracts are entered into to support transactions made in the normal course of business, and accordingly, are not speculative in nature. The contracts are for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions, generally one year or less. Hedges related to anticipated transactions are designated and documented at the inception of the respective hedges as cash flow hedges and are qualitatively evaluated for effectiveness quarterly. Derivative instruments are employed to eliminate or minimize certain foreign currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified. As the terms of the contract and the underlying transaction are matched at inception, forward contract effectiveness is calculated by comparing the change in fair value of the contract to the change in the forward value of the anticipated transaction, with the gain or loss on the derivative reported as a component of accumulated OCI in shareholders’ equity and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The total notional amount of forward foreign currency derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments of cash flow hedges denominated in Euros, British Pounds, Philippine Pesos and Japanese Yen as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017 was $195.3 million and $194.3 million, respectively. As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the total notional amount of these undesignated hedges was $63.1 million and $100.4 million, respectively. The fair value of these hedging instruments in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet was immaterial as of August 4, 2018 and was a liability of $1.8 million as of October 28, 2017. All of the Company’s derivative financial instruments are eligible for netting arrangements that allow the Company and its counterparties to net settle amounts owed to each other. Derivative assets and liabilities that can be net settled under these arrangements have been presented in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet on a net basis. As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, none of the master netting arrangements involved collateral. The Company utilizes interest rate derivatives to alter interest rate exposure in an attempt to reduce the effects of these changes. The market risk associated with the Company’s derivative instruments results from currency exchange rate or interest rate movements that are expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. The counterparties to the agreements relating to the Company’s derivative instruments consist of a number of major international financial institutions with high credit ratings. Based on the credit ratings of the Company’s counterparties as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, nonperformance is not perceived to be a significant risk. Furthermore, none of the Company’s derivatives are subject to collateral or other security arrangements and none contain provisions that are dependent on the Company’s credit ratings from any credit rating agency. While the contract or notional amounts of derivative financial instruments provide one measure of the volume of these transactions, they do not represent the amount of the Company’s exposure to credit risk. As a result of the above considerations, the Company does not consider the risk of counterparty default to be significant.16The Company records the fair value of its derivative financial instruments in its condensed consolidated financial statements in other current assets, other assets or accrued liabilities, depending on their net position, regardless of the purpose or intent for holding the derivative contract. Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments are either recognized periodically in earnings or in shareholders’ equity as a component of OCI. Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI and reclassified into earnings when the underlying contract matures and, for interest rate exposure derivatives, over the term of the corresponding debt instrument. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company completed organizational changes designed to integrate the operations of Linear into the Company’s organizational structure and to reflect the evolution of the Company's markets. The Company performed an impairment analysis utilizing the quantitative method immediately prior to and subsequent to the reorganization and evaluated goodwill for impairment as of the date of reorganization. When utilizing the quantitative method, the goodwill impairment test requires an entity to compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. The Company determines the fair value of its reporting units using a weighting of the income and market approaches. Under the income approach, the Company uses a discounted cash flow methodology which requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasted revenues, gross profit margins, operating income margins, working capital cash flow, perpetual growth rates, and long-term discount rates, among others. For the market approach, the Company uses the guideline public company method. Under this method, the Company utilizes information from comparable publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting units, to create valuation multiples that are applied to the operating performance of the reporting unit being tested, in order to estimate their respective fair values. In order to assess the reasonableness of the calculated reporting unit fair values, the Company reconciles the aggregate estimated fair values of its reporting units determined to its current market capitalization, allowing for a reasonable control premium. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, calculated using the above approaches, exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for the amount of the carrying value that exceeds the amount of the reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. Additionally, the Company considers income tax effects from any tax deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if applicable. There was no impairment of goodwill in any period presented. The Company's next annual impairment assessment will be performed as of the first day of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. If required, recoverability of these assets is determined by comparison of their carrying value to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate over their remaining estimated useful lives. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized in earnings equals the 17amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds their estimated fair value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique. The impairment test involves a qualitative assessment on the indefinite-lived intangible assets to determine whether it is more likely-than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. If it is determined that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than the carrying value, the Company would recognize into earnings the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the estimated fair value. No impairment of intangible assets resulted from the impairment tests in any of the periods presented.Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or on an accelerated method of amortization that is expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use. Intangible assets, along with the related accumulated amortization, are removed from the table above at the end of the fiscal year they become fully amortized.For the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018, amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets was $143.2 million and $428.2 million, respectively. For the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017, amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets was $147.2 million and $256.0 million, respectively. Interest on the 2020 Notes is payable on March 12 and September 12 of each year, beginning on September 12, 2018. Interest on the January 2021 Notes is payable on January 12 and July 12 of each year, beginning on July 12, 2018. The net proceeds of the offering were $743.8 million, after discount and issuance costs, which were used to repay a portion of the Company’s outstanding 5-year unsecured term loan. Debt discount and issuance costs will be amortized through interest expense over the term of the Notes. At any time prior to the applicable maturity date of the Notes, the Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of the applicable series of Notes by paying a make-whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of 18redemption. The Notes are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company’s other unsecured senior indebtedness. The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, as supplemented by a supplemental indenture, and the indenture and supplemental indenture contain certain covenants, events of default and other customary provisions. As of August 4, 2018, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.On November 10, 2017, the Company paid $300.0 million of principal on its 3-year unsecured term loan using cash on hand as of October 28, 2017. This amount was not contractually due under the terms of the loan. As such, this amount was classified as current in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of October 28, 2017. During the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, the Company made additional principal payments of $1.0 billion on its 3-year unsecured term loan and $750.0 million on its 5-year unsecured term loan. These amounts were not contractually due under the terms of the loans. The valuation of inventory requires the Company to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The Company employs a variety of methodologies to determine the net realizable value of its inventory. While a portion of the calculation to record inventory at its net realizable value is based on the age of the inventory and lower of cost or market calculations, a key factor in estimating obsolete or excess inventory requires the Company to estimate the future demand for its products. If actual demand is less than the Company’s estimates, impairment charges, which are recorded to cost of sales, may need to be recorded in future periods. The total consideration paid to acquire Linear, which consisted of cash, common stock of the Company and share-based compensation awards, was approximately $15.8 billion. The Company believes that the combination creates the premier analog technology company with the industry’s most comprehensive suite of high-performance analog offerings. The results of operations of Linear from the Acquisition Date are included in the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of income, condensed consolidated balance sheet, and condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded acquisition accounting adjustments of $1.6 million to goodwill comprised of $4.7 million to intangible assets, $2.7 million to accounts receivable, $2.4 million to assumed liabilities and $1.1 million to deferred tax liabilities. The Acquisition accounting was completed during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. The pro forma consolidated financial information has been calculated after applying the Company’s accounting policies and includes adjustments for amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, transaction-related costs, a step-up in the value of acquired inventory and property, plant and equipment, compensation expense for ongoing share-based compensation arrangements replaced and interest expense for the debt incurred to fund the Acquisition, together with the consequential tax effects. These pro forma results have been prepared for comparative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the operating results of the Company that would have been achieved had the Acquisition actually taken place on November 1, 2015. In addition, these results are not intended to be a projection of future results and do not reflect events that may occur after the Acquisition, including but not limited to revenue enhancements, cost savings or operating synergies that the combined Company may achieve as a result of the Acquisition. The Company included the results of operations of each acquisition in its consolidated statement of income from the date of each acquisition. Note 14 – Income TaxesThe Company has provided for potential tax liabilities due in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Judgment is required in determining the worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities. Although the Company believes its estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material impact on the Company’s income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made.The Company’s effective tax rate reflects the applicable tax rate in effect in the various tax jurisdictions around the world where the Company's income is earned. As of August 4, 2018, the Company has not completed its accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Legislation. However, as described below, the Company has made reasonable estimates of the effects on its existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.The Tax Legislation reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%, effective January 1, 2018, which results in a blended statutory income tax rate for the Company of 23.4% for fiscal 2018. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a $639.7 million discrete tax benefit for the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future, which is generally 21.0%. There was no material change to this provisional estimate in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. This provisional benefit is subject to revision based on further analysis and interpretation of the Tax Legislation and to the extent that future results differ from currently available projections. The Tax Legislation also implements a territorial tax system. As part of transitioning to the territorial tax system, the Tax Legislation includes a one-time transition tax based on our total post-1986 undistributed foreign earnings and profits that were previously deferred from U.S. income tax. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a provisional tax expense amount for the one-time transition tax of $687.1 million, which is comprised of the $751.1 million transition tax liability less a deferred tax liability of $64.0 million that was recorded in prior years. There was no material change to this provisional estimate in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. This provisional estimate may be impacted by a number of additional considerations, including, but not limited to, the issuance of final tax regulations, the Company's ongoing analysis of the Tax Legislation, the Company's earnings and profits subject to the one-time transition tax, and estimated earnings and profits and foreign tax credit pools for fiscal 2018 as well as the amount of earnings and profits held in cash or other specified assets. The Company intends to elect to pay this transition tax starting in fiscal 2019 without incurring interest over a period of eight years. As a result, $60.1 million of the transition tax is classified as current taxes payable and $691.0 million is classified as non-current taxes payable.20For the nine months ended August 4, 2018, the Company recorded a total of $24.2 million in discrete benefits for excess tax benefits from share-based payments, pursuant to ASU 2016-09, which became effective for fiscal 2018. 5, Accounting for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, states that an entity can make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred. The Company is still in the process of analyzing the impact that the Tax Legislation has on its indefinite reinvestment assertion. Accordingly, no additional income taxes or withholding taxes have been provided for any remaining undistributed foreign earnings not subject to the transition tax, or any outside basis difference inherent in these entities.On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued guidance under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. Also in March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. In accordance with SAB 118, the amount reported for the tax benefit from re-measuring the Company’s net deferred tax liabilities to the lower 21.0% statutory rate and the amount reported for the additional U.S. income tax resulting from the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation including the ongoing evaluation of the impact on the Company’s indefinite reinvestment assertions regarding undistributed earnings and profits, represents the Company's best estimate as it continues to accumulate and process data to finalize its underlying calculations and to review further guidance that regulators are expected to issue. The Company is also analyzing other provisions of the Tax Legislation to determine if they will impact the Company's effective rate for fiscal 2018 or in the future. The Company will continue to refine its adjustments through the permissible measurement period, which is not to extend beyond one year after the enactment date.Many provisions in the Tax Legislation may have U.S. state and local income tax implications. While some states automatically adopt federal tax law changes, others may conform their laws on a specific date or may choose to decouple from the new federal tax law provisions. As such, the Company has not sufficiently analyzed the impact of the new Tax Legislation on its state and local income taxes, and therefore did not record a provisional amount, but instead continues to apply ASC 740, based on the provisions of the tax law that were in effect immediately prior to the Tax Legislation being enacted. The Company expects to complete its analysis of the effects on state and local income taxes on or before December 22, 2018 as allowed by SAB 118.All of the Company’s U.S. federal tax returns prior to fiscal year 2014 are no longer subject to examination. All of the Company’s Ireland tax returns prior to fiscal year 2012 are no longer subject to examination.The Company has numerous audits ongoing at any time throughout the world, including an Internal Revenue Service income tax audit for Linear’s pre-acquisition fiscal year 2015, various U.S. state and local tax audits, and transfer pricing audits in Spain, the Philippines and Ireland. As the statute of limitations for Ireland's transfer pricing audit expires in the quarter ended November 3, 2018, the Company expects to receive formal correspondence from Ireland within the next several weeks.Although the Company believes its estimates of income taxes payable are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the Company will prevail in the matters raised or that the outcome of one or all of these matters will not be different than that which is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals. ASU 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company early adopted ASU 2017-12 in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. ASU 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2016 and allows for prospective, retrospective or modified retrospective adoption, depending on the area covered in the update, with early adoption permitted. The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The Company recorded total excess tax benefits of $24.2 million in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018 from its share-based payments within income tax expense in its condensed consolidated statements of income. These excess tax benefits are presented within operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. The Company applied this change in presentation retrospectively and has adjusted the prior year presentation by removing the reclass of $30.2 million of excess tax benefit-stock options from net cash provided by operating activities to net cash provided by financing activities. The Company elected not to change its policy on accounting for forfeitures and continues to estimate forfeitures expected to occur to determine the amount of compensation cost to be recognized in each period. The adoption of ASU 2016-09 also changed the calculation of fully diluted shares outstanding. The excess tax benefits have been excluded from the calculation of assumed proceeds in the Company's calculation of diluted weighted shares under the new standard. ASU 2016-07 eliminates the requirement that when an investment, initially accounted for under a method other than the equity method of accounting, subsequently qualifies for use of the equity method, an investor must retrospectively apply the equity method in prior periods in which it held the investment. This requires an investor to determine the fair value of the investee’s underlying assets and liabilities retrospectively at each investment date and revise all prior periods as if the equity method had always been applied. The new guidance requires the investor to apply the equity method prospectively from the date the investment qualifies for the equity method. The investor will add the carrying value of the existing investment to the cost of the additional investment to determine the initial cost basis of the equity method investment. ASU 2016-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years, and early adoption is permitted. The Company adopted ASU 2016-07 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The guidance applies only to inventories for which cost is determined by methods other than last-in first-out and the retail inventory method. The guidance in ASU 2015-11 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 and early adoption is permitted. The Company adopted ASU 2015-11 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The adoption of ASU 2015-11 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 did not impact the Company's financial position or results of operations.Standards to Be ImplementedComprehensive IncomeIn February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. ASU 2018-01 allows for reclassification of stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Legislation from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings. ASU 2018-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The definition of a business affects many areas of accounting including acquisitions, disposals, goodwill, and consolidation. The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those periods. The Company will adopt ASU 2017-01 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. ASU 2016-16 will require an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs. ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual reporting period for which financial statements have not been issued or made available for issuance. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-16 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. ASU 2016-15 provides guidance on several specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, settlement of certain debt instruments, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of certain insurance claims and distributions received from equity method investees. ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted in any interim or annual period. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-15 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize most leases on the balance sheet but recognize expenses on the income statement in a manner similar to current practice. The update states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-to-use asset for the right to use the underlying assets for the lease term. Leases will continue to be classified as either financing or operating, with classification affecting the recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease. ASU 2018-01 permits an entity to elect an optional transition practical expedient to not evaluate land easements that exist or expired before the entity’s adoption of Topic 842 and that were not previously accounted for as leases under Topic 840. ASU 2016-02, ASU 2018-01 and ASU 2018-11 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. ASU 2016-02 and ASU 2018-01 are effective for the 23Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. ASU 2016-01 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. ASU 2016-01 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the impact adoption will have on its financial position and results of operations. ASU 2018-07 expands the scope of Topic 718 to include all share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. ASU 2018-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year, with early adoption permitted. ASU 2018-07 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The new guidance clarifies when a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award must be accounted for as a modification. ASU 2017-09 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. ASU 2017-09 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Additionally, the guidance requires improved disclosures to help users of financial statements better understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The FASB has issued several amendments and updates to the new revenue standard, including guidance related to when an entity should recognize revenue gross as a principal or net as an agent and how an entity should identify performance obligations. As amended, ASU 2014-09 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which is the Company's first quarter of fiscal 2019. The Company has developed a project plan for the implementation of the guidance, including a review of all revenue streams to identify any differences in the timing, measurement or presentation of revenue recognition. The Company has reviewed its revenue streams, including those from the Acquisition, and is nearing completion in assessing all potential impacts of the standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, including any impacts from recently issued 24amendments, and retrospectively adjusting financial information for prior fiscal years. While the Company is still in the process of completing its evaluation of the standard, it currently believes the most significant impact will be related to the timing of recognition of sales to certain distributors. As described in Note 2, Revenue Recognition, of these Notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements, the Company currently defers revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to certain distributors until the distributors resell the products to their customers. Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company will no longer be permitted to defer revenue until sale by the distributor to the end customer, but rather, will be required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor. The Company will adopt ASU 2014-09, using the full retrospective method, upon its effective date for the Company which is the Company’s first quarter of fiscal 2019.Note 16 – Subsequent EventsOn August 21, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.48 per outstanding share of common stock. The dividend will be paid on September 12, 2018 to all shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2018.Also on August 21, 2018, the Company reinstated its share repurchase program, and its Board of Directors approved an increase to the current authorization for the stock repurchase program by an additional $2.0 billion to $8.2 billion in the aggregate. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “continues,” “may,” “could” and “will,” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified in Part II, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. The additional week in fiscal 2018 was included in the first quarter ended February 3, 2018. The total consideration paid to acquire Linear was approximately $15.8 billion. The acquisition of Linear is referred to as the Acquisition. The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date. See Note 13, Acquisitions, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information.Revenue Trends by End MarketThe following tables summarize revenue by end market for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017. The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which our product will be incorporated. As data systems for capturing and tracking this data evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time. When this occurs, we reclassify revenue by end market for prior periods. Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market. The Industrial end market included $691.4 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to $277.5 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition. Industrial end market revenue increased in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of the Acquisition, a broad-based increase in demand for our products in this end market and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. The Automotive end market included $250.2 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to $113.4 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition. Automotive end market revenue increased in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior 27fiscal year, primarily as a result of the Acquisition, a broad-based increase in demand for our products in this end market and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Consumer - Consumer end market revenue decreased in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications. Consumer end market revenue decreased in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily as a result of a decreased demand for products used in portable consumer applications, partially offset by an increase in revenue due to the Acquisition, which was not significant, and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Communications - Communications end market revenue increased in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year as a result of a broad-based increase in demand for our products sold into this end market. The Communications end market included $258.9 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to $73.7 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition. The United States and Rest of North and South America included $304.1 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to $109.6 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition. The sales increase in the United States in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was 28primarily a result of the Acquisition, an increase in demand for our products sold into the Industrial end market and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017, partially offset by a decrease in demand for our products sold into the Consumer end market.The sales increase in Europe in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of an increase in demand for our products sold into the Industrial and Communications end markets. Europe included $271.1 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to $129.3 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition. The sales increase in Europe in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of the Acquisition, an increase in demand for our products sold into the Industrial and Communications end markets and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017, partially offset by a decrease in demand for our products sold into the Automotive end market. The sales increase in Japan in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of an increase in demand for our products sold into the Industrial end market. Japan included $205.3 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to $55.8 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition. The sales increase in Japan in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of the Acquisition, an increase in demand for our products sold into the Industrial end market and an additional week of operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.The sales increase in China and the Rest of Asia in the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of a broad-based increase in demand for our products sold into all end markets. China included $272.5 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to $126.6 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition. The Rest of Asia included $192.7 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to $94.8 million of revenue in the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017, as a result of the Acquisition. Additionally, the increases in gross margin percentages in the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year, were a result of lower cost of sales resulting from increased efficiencies at our manufacturing facilities. 29Approximately $143.1 million of the overall increase in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was a result of the Acquisition. We expect to continue the development of innovative technologies and processes for new products. As a result of these assessments, we have undertaken various restructuring actions over the past several years, which resulted in special charges of $16.1 million and $8.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively, in an effort to reduce overall operating costs. In addition, in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 we recorded a special charge of $41.3 million related to an early retirement offer action, which we expect to result in estimated annual salary, variable compensation, and employee benefit savings of approximately $28.4 million once fully implemented.30In the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we recorded special charges of $43.4 million as a result of our decision to consolidate certain wafer and test facility operations acquired as part of the Acquisition. Over the next three to five years, we plan to close our Hillview wafer fabrication facility located in Milpitas, California and our Singapore test facility. We intend to transfer Hillview wafer fabrication production to our other internal facilities and to external foundries. In addition, we are planning to transition testing operations currently handled in our Singapore facility to our facilities in Penang, Malaysia and the Philippines, in addition to our outsourced assembly and test partners. The special charge recognized as a result of this action consists of severance and related benefit costs. Our effective income tax rate can also be impacted each year by discrete factors or events.The tax rate for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 was below our blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 23.4% for fiscal 2018 resulting from the passage of the Tax Legislation, primarily due to lower statutory tax rates applicable to our operations in the foreign jurisdictions in which we earn income. Similarly, the tax rate for the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017 was below the then U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%, primarily due to lower statutory tax rates applicable to our operations in the foreign jurisdictions in which we earn income, and for the three month period ended July 29, 2017, it exceeded the U.S. statutory tax rate, primarily due to approximately $98 million of tax expense incurred during the quarter as part of the post-Acquisition integration, partially offset by a tax benefit of $51 million related to the reduction of reserves and related interest resulting from the U.S. Tax Court's favorable ruling.Our effective tax rate for the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018 includes a provisional estimate for a discrete tax benefit of $639.7 million from remeasuring our U.S. deferred tax liabilities at the lower 21% statutory tax rate. The nine-month period ended August 4, 2018 also includes a provisional estimate of $687.1 million for the discrete tax charge from the Tax Legislation’s one-time transition tax associated with our undistributed foreign earnings, which is comprised of the $751.1 million transitional tax liability less a deferred tax liability of $64.0 million that was recorded in prior years.Additionally, we recorded discrete benefits for excess tax benefits from share-based payments of $6.0 and $24.2 million in the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 also included a tax benefit of $4.2 million and $7.9 million, respectively, resulting from the release of uncertain tax positions due to a statute of limitation expiration during the quarter. Our effective tax rate for the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017 included a tax benefit of $15.0 million for the release of a state tax credit valuation allowance as a result of the Acquisition.The Tax Legislation contains many provisions that are effective for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018. For fiscal 2018, the most significant impacts include a lower U.S. federal corporate income tax rate, a re-measurement of certain net deferred taxes to reflect the revised tax rates and a new transition tax on the deemed repatriation of certain foreign earnings. The phasing in of the lower corporate income tax rate results in a blended federal tax rate of 23.4% for fiscal 2018, compared with the previous 35% rate. The federal tax rate will be reduced to 21% in subsequent fiscal years.Non-U.S. jurisdictions accounted for approximately 76.0% of our total revenues for the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, compared to approximately 79.3% of our total revenues for the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017. This revenue generated outside of the U.S. results in a material portion of our pretax income being taxed outside the U.S., primarily in Bermuda, Ireland and Singapore, at tax rates ranging from 0% to 33.3%. The Company has a partial tax holiday in Singapore through August 2019 and a partial tax holiday in Malaysia through July 2025. The impact on our provision for income taxes on income earned in foreign jurisdictions being taxed at rates different than the U.S. statutory rate was a benefit of approximately $123.8 million and a foreign effective tax rate of approximately 4.5% for the three-month period ended August 4, 2018, compared to a benefit of approximately $182.6 million and a foreign effective tax rate of approximately 5.8% for the three-month period ended July 29, 2017. The impact on our provision for income taxes on income earned in foreign jurisdictions being taxed at rates different than the U.S. statutory rate was a benefit of approximately $334.9 million and a foreign effective tax rate of approximately 5.3% for the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, compared to a benefit of approximately $266.7 million and a foreign effective tax rate of approximately 5.1% for the nine-month period ended July 29, 2017. A reduction in the ratio of domestic taxable income to worldwide taxable income effectively lowers our overall tax rate, due to the fact that the tax rates in the majority of foreign jurisdictions where we earn income are lower than the U.S. statutory rate. The balance of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. We continue to assert our intent to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely, however we are in the process of analyzing the impact that the Tax Legislation has on this indefinite reinvestment assertion. As we intend to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely at this time, certain cash held outside the United States is not available for repatriation as dividends to the United States. If such funds are needed for U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding and U.S. state income taxes to the extent not already subject to taxation. Our cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less, including money market funds. We maintain these balances with high credit quality counterparties, continually monitor the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer and diversify our investments in order to minimize our credit risk. On the Acquisition Date, we borrowed under a term loan agreement consisting of a 3-year unsecured term loan in the principal amount of $2.5 billion, due March 10, 2020 and a 5-year unsecured term loan in the principal amount of $2.5 billion, due March 10, 2022. As of August 4, 2018, we have paid $1.9 billion of principal on the 3-year unsecured term loan and paid $1.2 billion of principal on the 5-year unsecured term loan. The following changes contributed to the net decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018 as compared to the same period in fiscal 2017.Operating ActivitiesCash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in assets and liabilities.The increase in cash provided by operating activities during the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily a result of higher net income income adjusted for non-cash items, and changes in working capital, primarily resulting from changes to income taxes related to the Tax Legislation.33Investing ActivitiesInvesting cash flows consist primarily of capital expenditures, investment purchases, maturities and sales of available-for-sale securities, as well as cash used for acquisitions.The decrease in cash used for investing activities during the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily the result of a decrease in payments for acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease of proceeds from the sale of available for sale securities.Financing Activities Financing cash flows consist primarily of payments of dividends to stockholders, repurchases of common stock, issuance and repayment of long-term debt, and proceeds from the sale of shares of common stock pursuant to employee equity incentive plans.The change in cash related to financing activities during the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to a decrease in net proceeds of $10.4 billion received from the issuance of senior unsecured notes and financing commitments, and repayments of $1.3 billion on the 3-year unsecured term loan and $750.0 million on the 5-year unsecured term loan. Cost of sales amounts used in the calculation of days cost of sales in inventory as of August 4, 2018 include Acquisition accounting adjustments related to the amortization of developed technology intangible assets acquired and depreciation related to the write up of fixed assets to fair value. The increase in accounts receivable in dollars was primarily the result of higher product shipments in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. Inventory in dollars increased, primarily as a result of our efforts to balance manufacturing production, demand and inventory levels. Our inventory levels are impacted by our need to support forecasted sales demand and variations between those forecasts and actual demand. Current liabilities decreased to $1.3 billion at August 4, 2018 from $1.6 billion at the end of fiscal 2017. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in the current portion of our debt. As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, we had gross deferred revenue of $679.9 million and $589.5 million, respectively, and gross deferred cost of sales of $132.6 million and $115.5 million, respectively. Deferred income on shipments to distributors increased in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, primarily as a result of higher demand for products sold into the channel. Sales to certain distributors are made under agreements that allow distributors to receive price-adjustment credits and to return qualifying products for credit, as determined by us, in order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or obsolete product from their inventory. Given the uncertainties associated with the levels of price-adjustment credits to be granted to certain distributors, the sales price to the distributors is not fixed or determinable until the distributors resell the products to their customers. Therefore, we defer revenue recognition from sales to distributors until the distributors have sold the products to their customers. The amount of price-adjustments is dependent on future overall market conditions, and therefore the levels of these adjustments could fluctuate significantly from period to period. To the extent that we experience a significant increase in the amount of credits we issue to our distributors, there could be a material impact on the ultimate revenue and gross margin recognized relating to these transactions.34DebtAs of August 4, 2018, we had $6.6 billion of carrying value outstanding on our long-term debt. The difference in the carrying value of the debt and the principal is due to the unamortized discount and issuance fees on these instruments that will accrete to the face value over the term of the debt. As of August 4, 2018, we were in compliance with these covenants. $5.0 Billion Aggregate Principal Term LoansOn the Acquisition Date, we drew down on a 3-year unsecured term loan in the principal amount of $2.5 billion, due March 10, 2020 and a 5-year unsecured term loan in the principal amount of $2.5 billion, due March 10, 2022. The term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate plus a margin based on our debt ratings from time to time of between 0.75% and 1.63% in the case of the 3-year unsecured term loan, and a margin of between 0.88% and 1.75% in the case of the 5-year unsecured term loan. As of August 4, 2018, we have paid $1.9 billion of principal on the 3-year unsecured term loan and paid $1.2 billion of principal on the 5-year unsecured term loan. Revolving Credit Facility We have a senior unsecured revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that expires on July 10, 2020. To date, we have not borrowed under this credit facility, but we may borrow in the future and use the proceeds for repayment of existing indebtedness, stock repurchases, acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital and other lawful corporate purposes. The terms of the Credit Agreement impose restrictions on our ability to undertake certain transactions, to create certain liens on assets and to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness. The debt covenant will be reduced over time to 3.0 to 1.0 which began in May 2018. As of August 4, 2018, we were in compliance with these covenants. Stock Repurchase ProgramOur common stock repurchase program has been in place since August 2004. In the aggregate, our Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase $6.2 billion of our common stock under the program. Under the program, we may repurchase outstanding shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions. 35Unless terminated earlier by resolution of our Board of Directors, the repurchase program will expire when we have repurchased all shares authorized under the program. As of August 4, 2018, we had repurchased a total of approximately 147.0 million shares of our common stock for approximately $5.4 billion under this program. As of August 4, 2018, an additional $792.5 million remains available for repurchase under the current authorized program. The repurchased shares are held as authorized but unissued shares of common stock. In connection with the Acquisition, we had temporarily suspended our share repurchase program. On August 21, 2018, the Board of Directors approved an increase to the current authorization for the stock repurchase program by an additional $2.0 billion to $8.2 billion in the aggregate. We also, from time to time, repurchase shares in settlement of employee minimum tax withholding obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock units.Capital ExpendituresNet additions to property, plant and equipment were $168.9 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and were funded with a combination of cash on hand and cash generated from operations. We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2018 to be in the range of $230.0 million to $270.0 million. These capital expenditures will be funded with a combination of cash on hand and cash generated from operations.DividendsOn August 21, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.48 per outstanding share of common stock. The dividend will be paid on September 12, 2018 to all shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2018 and is expected to total approximately $178.4 million. We currently expect quarterly dividends to continue at $0.48 per share, although they remain subject to determination and declaration by our Board of Directors. The payment of future dividends, if any, will be based on several factors, including our financial performance, outlook and liquidity.Contractual ObligationsIn the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we entered into a lease agreement for approximately 445,000 sq. ft. for a facility in Santa Clara, California. The lease term is through October 2030 and we expect to occupy the building beginning January 1, 2019.The Tax Legislation, enacted on December 22, 2017, contains significant changes to U.S. tax law, including lowering the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21.0%, implementing a territorial tax system, and imposing a one-time tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. These escalating payment requirements are reflected in the table. Unless otherwise discussed, management believes that the impact of recently issued standards will not have a material impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Additionally, the guidance requires improved disclosures to help users of financial statements better understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The FASB has issued several amendments and updates to the new revenue standard, including guidance related to when an entity should recognize revenue gross as a principal or net as an agent and how an entity should identify performance obligations. As amended, ASU 2014-09 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which is our first quarter of fiscal 2019. We have developed a project plan for the implementation of the guidance, including a review of all revenue streams to identify any differences in the timing, measurement or presentation of revenue recognition. We have reviewed our revenue streams, including those from the Acquisition, and are nearing completion in assessing all potential impacts of the standard on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, including any impacts from recently issued amendments, and retrospectively adjusting financial information for prior fiscal years. While we are still in the process of completing our evaluation of the standard, we currently believe the most significant impact will be related to the timing of recognition of sales to certain distributors. As described in Note 2, Revenue Recognition, of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we currently defer revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to certain distributors until the distributors resell the products to their customers. Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, we will no longer be permitted to defer revenue until sale by the distributor to the end customer, but rather, will be required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor. As of August 4, 2018, we have paid $1.9 billion of principal on the 3-year unsecured term loan and paid $1.2 billion of principal on the 5-year unsecured term loan. Based on the $2.0 billion of floating rate debt outstanding as of August 4, 2018, of which $1 billion is hedged, our annual interest expense would change by approximately $10.0 million for each 100 basis point increase in interest rates.There were no other material changes in the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018 to the information provided under Item 7A. Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of August 4, 2018. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of August 4, 2018, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business. We completed the acquisition of Linear, which we refer to as the Acquisition, on March 10, 2017. The success of the Acquisition, including the achievement of anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Acquisition, is subject to a number of uncertainties and will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate Linear's business into our business in an efficient and effective manner. Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms. Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure. Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the global credit and financial markets could cause the value of the currency in the affected markets to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of those customers. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. Our business and certain of the end markets we serve are also subject to rapid technological changes and material fluctuations in demand based on end-user preferences. As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis. Our historical financial performance and results of operations should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance or results. In addition, if our revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share results or expectations do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may decline.Increases in our effective tax rate and exposure to additional tax liabilities may adversely impact our results of operations.Our effective tax rate reflects the applicable tax rate in effect in the various tax jurisdictions around the world where our income is earned. It was also below the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% for fiscal 2017 under the previous tax laws. This is primarily due to lower statutory tax rates applicable to our operations in the foreign jurisdictions in which we earn income. In addition, we have a partial tax holiday through July 2025 in Malaysia and a partial tax holiday in Singapore through August 2019. The ability to extend such tax holidays beyond their dates of expiration cannot be assured. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could adversely impact our net income during future periods. In addition, future tax reform and certain aspects of the Tax Legislation, which become effective in the fiscal year ending November 2, 2019, may result in changes to long-standing tax principles, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities. The BEPS recommendations covered a number of issues, including country-by-country reporting, permanent establishment rules, transfer pricing rules and tax treaties. The final impact of the new tax law may differ from these estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations and assumptions made, additional guidance that may be issued, unexpected negative changes in business and market conditions that could reduce certain tax benefits, and actions we take as a result of this new tax law. Long-term contracts are not typical for us, and incorrect forecasts or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results.We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers. In certain markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product. In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demands, which may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis. Additionally, our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts may be funded in increments over a number of government budget periods and typically can be terminated by the government for its convenience. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales, and we are subject to the risk of lower than expected orders or cancellations of orders, leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog. Further, orders or forecasts for products that meet the customer’s unique requirements and that are canceled or unrealized orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs, and we may be unable to recover all of our costs incurred or committed. As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial. Incorrect forecasts, or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results.Our future success depends upon our ability to execute our business strategy, continue to innovate, improve our existing products, design, develop, produce and market new products, and identify and enter new markets.Our future success significantly depends on our continued ability to execute our business strategy, continue to improve our existing products and design, develop, produce and market innovative new products. Product design, development, innovation and enhancement is often a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving significant investment in 41research and development, with no assurance of return on investment. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce new and improved products in a timely or efficient manner or that new and improved products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance. Our products generally must conform to various evolving and sometimes competing industry standards, which may adversely affect our ability to compete in certain markets or require us to incur significant costs. In addition, our customers generally impose very high quality and reliability standards on our products, which often change and may be difficult or costly to satisfy. Any inability to satisfy customer quality and reliability standards or comply with industry standards and technical requirements may adversely affect demand for our products and our results of operations. In addition, our growth is dependent on our ability to generate new design opportunities and win competitive bid selection processes. Failure to obtain or maintain a particular design win may prevent us from obtaining or maintaining design wins in subsequent generations of a particular product and could also weaken our position in future competitive selection processes. Our growth is also dependent on our ability to identify and penetrate new markets where we have limited experience and competition is intense. Some of our customers in new markets are less established, which could subject us to increased credit risk. Additionally, developing markets, such as the Internet of Things, autonomous driving, artificial intelligence and 5G, require significant investments, resources and technological advancements in order to compete effectively and there can be no assurance that we will achieve success in these markets. Furthermore, a decline in demand in one or several of our end-user markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our results of operations.We may not be able to compete successfully in markets within the semiconductor industry in the future.We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry, and we expect this competition to increase in the future, including from companies located outside of the United States. Competition is generally based on innovation, design, quality and reliability of products, product performance, features and functionality, product pricing, availability and capacity, technological service and support, and the availability of integrated system solutions, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers. Many companies have sufficient financial, manufacturing, technical, sales and marketing resources to develop and market products that compete with our products. Some of our competitors may have more advantageous supply or development relationships with our current and potential customers or suppliers. Our competitors also include emerging companies selling specialized products in markets we serve and entities outside of the U.S., including entities associated with well-funded efforts by foreign governments to create indigenous semiconductor industries. Existing or new competitors may develop products or technologies that more effectively address the demands of our customers and markets with enhanced performance, features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition in certain markets has resulted in and may continue to result in declining average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in those markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased competition. In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation over the past several years. This reliance involves several risks, including reduced control over availability, capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs. We currently source approximately half of our wafer requirements annually from third-party wafer fabrication foundries, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. In addition, these suppliers often provide manufacturing services to our competitors and therefore periods of increased industry demand may result in capacity constraints. In certain instances, the third-party supplier is the sole source of highly specialized processing services. If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers. If additional or replacement suppliers or manufacturing processes are not available, we may also experience delays in product development or shipment which could, in turn, result in the temporary or permanent loss of customers.42A prolonged disruption of our internal manufacturing operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition to leveraging an outsourcing model for manufacturing operations, we also rely on our internal manufacturing operations located in the United States, Ireland, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia. A prolonged disruption at, or inability to utilize, one or more of our manufacturing facilities, loss of raw materials or damage to our manufacturing equipment for any reason, including due to natural or man-made disasters, civil unrest or other events outside of our control, such as widespread outbreaks of illness or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, may disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in us being unable to timely satisfy customer demand. As a result, we could forgo revenue opportunities, potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our outstanding term loans and senior unsecured notes.Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness when due, including the significant indebtedness that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition, depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, we may not be able to obtain any such financing, refinancing or complete a sale of assets on economically favorable terms. In the case of financing or refinancing, favorable interest rates will depend on the health of the debt capital markets.Our significant existing indebtedness could also have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes or creating competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels.The markets for semiconductor products are cyclical, and increased production may lead to overcapacity and lower prices, and conversely, we may not be able to satisfy unexpected demand for our products.The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted in periods when demand for our products has increased or decreased rapidly. The demand for our products is subject to the strength of our four major end markets of Industrial, Communications, Automotive and Consumer. If we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly or procure excessive resources in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and that demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expect, or declines, or if we overbuild inventory in a period of decreased demand, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of increased operating expenses, reduced margins, underutilization of capacity or asset impairment charges. These capacity expansions by us and other semiconductor manufacturers could also lead to overcapacity in our target markets which could lead to price erosion that would adversely impact our operating results. Conversely, during periods of rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand. In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources and raw materials, locate suitable third-party suppliers, or respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to demand for new products requested by our customers, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected.Our semiconductor products are complex and we may be subject to product warranty and indemnity claims, which could result in significant costs and damage to our reputation and adversely affect customer relationships, the market acceptance of our products and our operating results.Semiconductor products are highly complex and may contain defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are developed. Failures in our products and services or in the products of customers could result in damage to our reputation for 43reliability and increase our legal or financial exposure to third parties. Certain of our products and services could also contain security vulnerabilities, defects, bugs and errors, which could also result in significant data losses, security breaches and theft of intellectual property. We generally warrant our products to our customers for one year from the date title passes from us. We invest significant resources in the testing of our products; however, if any of our products contain defects, we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for costs and expenses associated with product recalls, which may adversely impact our operating results. We may also be subject to customer indemnity claims. Our customers have on occasion been sued, and may be sued in the future, by third parties alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, or damages resulting from use of our products. Those customers may seek indemnification from us under the terms and conditions of our sales contracts with them. In certain cases, our potential indemnification liability may be significant. If any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to customers and could also adversely affect our operating results.The fabrication of integrated circuits is highly complex and precise, and our manufacturing processes utilize a substantial amount of technology. Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional. While we have significant expertise in semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes could become unstable. This instability could result in manufacturing delays and product shortages, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.We are occasionally involved in litigation, including claims regarding intellectual property rights, which could be costly to litigate and could require us to redesign products or pay significant royalties.The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights. Other companies or individuals have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling infringing products, if those patents are found to be valid and infringed by us. In the event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us and a license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced either to redesign or to stop production of products incorporating that intellectual property, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents or other of our intellectual property rights or to defend us against claims of infringement, and this litigation could be costly and divert the attention of our key personnel. We could also be subject to litigation or arbitration disputes arising under our contractual obligations, as well as customer indemnity, warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant costs and expenses as we defend those claims or pay damage awards. There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured to protect against all claims and potential liabilities, and we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters. An adverse outcome in litigation or arbitration could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or on our operating results or cash flows in the period in which the dispute is resolved.We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively.Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, mask work, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, reverse engineer, use or disclose our technologies, products and processes. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries in which we design, manufacture, market and sell our products may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the claims allowed in our issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection. We may not be able to obtain foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications. Even if patents are granted, enforcement may not be available or achieved under the circumstances. If our patents and mask works do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents.We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can be no 44assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment.A significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems or certain of our products could materially and adversely affect our business or reputation. We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. We also utilize external cloud providers for certain infrastructure activities. If we were to experience a prolonged disruption in the information technology systems that involve our internal communications or our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. We may also be subject to security breaches of our information technology systems and certain of our products caused by viruses, illegal break-ins or hacking, sabotage, or acts of vandalism by third parties or our employees or contractors. Our security measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent security breaches, defects, bugs or errors. In addition, we provide our confidential and proprietary information to our strategic partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business. While we employ confidentiality agreements to protect such information, nonetheless those third parties may also be subject to security breaches or otherwise compromise the protection of such information. Security breaches of our information technology systems or those of our partners could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential and proprietary information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.If we are unable to recruit or retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be adversely affected.Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The inability to attract, hire and retain key employees with critical technical skills to achieve our strategy, including as a result of changes to immigration policies, could also have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on our business should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or employees.To remain competitive, we may need to invest in or acquire other companies, purchase or license technology from third parties, or enter into other strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or enhance our existing products.An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, diversify our product portfolio, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce, expand our technical skill sets or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to find businesses that have the technology or resources we need and, if we find such businesses, we may not be able to invest in, purchase or license the technology or resources on commercially favorable terms or at all. Acquisitions, investments and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory approvals, and difficulties related to integration efforts. In addition, investments in private companies are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of our investment. Both in the U.S. and abroad, governmental regulation of acquisitions, including antitrust reviews and approvals, has become more complex, increasing the costs and risks of undertaking and consummating significant acquisitions. In order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by issuing securities or borrowing money. Earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters may disrupt local semiconductor-related businesses and adversely affect manufacturing capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment, and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide. Our insurance may not adequately cover losses resulting from such disruptions. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, flood, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, could result in a temporary or permanent loss of customers for affected products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We are exposed to business, economic, political, legal, regulatory and other risks through our significant worldwide operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have significant operations and manufacturing facilities outside the United States, including in Ireland, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from customers in international markets, and we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in the future. While we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving policies, laws and regulations, including those relating to trade, taxation, import and export tariffs or restrictions, currency controls, antitrust, cybersecurity and data protection, the environment, indigenous innovation and the promotion of a domestic semiconductor industry, and intellectual property rights and enforcement and protection of those rights. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies, international trade policies and relations, or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions on imports or exports, currency revaluations, or retaliatory actions by China in response to U.S. actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. At August 4, 2018, our principal source of liquidity was $772.6 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $369.7 million was held in the United States and the remaining balance was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. As we intend to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely, certain cash held outside the United States is not available for repatriation as dividends to meet certain aspects of our cash requirements in the United States. We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends and acquisitions. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, borrowings under our current revolving credit facility, future debt or equity offerings or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are indefinitely reinvested, and we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding and U.S. income taxes under current tax laws as revised by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Our operating results are dependent on the performance of independent distributors.A significant portion of our sales are through independent distributors that are not under our control. These independent distributors generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or they could terminate their representation of us. We generally do not require letters of credit from our distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or declarations of bankruptcy by these distributors. Our inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our operating results. Termination of a significant distributor or a group of distributors, whether at our initiative or the distributor’s initiative or through consolidation in the distribution industry, could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected. Public attention to environmental, sustainability and social responsibility concerns continues to increase, and our customers routinely include stringent environmental and other standards in their contracts with us. Changes in EHS laws or regulations may require us to invest in costly equipment or make manufacturing process changes and may adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. In addition, we use hazardous and other regulated materials that subject us to risks of strict liability for damages caused by potential or actual releases of such materials. As a United States government contractor or subcontractor, we are subject to federal contracting regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which govern the allowability of costs incurred by us in the performance of 47United States government contracts. Certain contract pricing is based on estimated direct and indirect costs, which are subject to change. Additionally, the United States government is entitled after final payment on certain negotiated contracts to examine all of our cost records with respect to such contracts and to seek a downward adjustment to the price of the contract if it determines that we failed to furnish complete, accurate and current cost or pricing data in connection with the negotiation of the price of the contract.In connection with our United States government business, we are also subject to government audits and to review and approval of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws. In certain circumstances, if we do not comply with the terms of a contract or with regulations or statutes, we could be subject to downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations or could in extreme circumstances be assessed civil and criminal penalties or be debarred or suspended from obtaining future contracts for a specified period of time. Any such suspension or debarment or other sanction could have an adverse effect on our business.Under some of our government subcontracts, we are required to maintain secure facilities and to obtain security clearances for personnel involved in performance of the contract, in compliance with applicable federal standards. If we were unable to comply with these requirements, or if personnel critical to our performance of these contracts were unable to obtain or maintain their security clearances, we might be unable to perform these contracts or compete for other projects of this nature, which could adversely affect our revenue.Restrictions in our revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments may limit our activities.Our current revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments impose, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may impose, restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our Company, including to undertake certain transactions, to create certain liens on our assets and to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and changes in technology, government regulations and the level of competition. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. and foreign government actions, including with respect to trade, travel, export and taxation;•changes in market valuations of other semiconductor companies;•rumors and speculation in the press, investment community or on social media about us, our customers or other companies in our industry;•announcements by us, our customers or our competitors of significant new products, technical innovations, material transactions, acquisitions or dispositions, litigation, capital commitments or revised earnings estimates;•departures of key personnel;•alleged noncompliance with laws, regulations or ethics standards by us or any of our employees, officers or directors; and•negative media publicity targeting us or our suppliers, customers or competitors.48The stock market has historically experienced volatility, especially within the semiconductor industry, that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our operating results.Our directors and executive officers periodically sell shares of our common stock in the market, including pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. Regardless of the individual's reasons for such sales, securities analysts and investors could view such sales as a negative indicator and our stock price could be adversely affected as a result.49ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of ProceedsIssuer Purchases of Equity Securities On March 10, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation, an independent manufacturer of high performance analog integrated circuits, which we refer to as the Acquisition. In connection with the Acquisition, we had temporarily suspended our share repurchase program. On August 21, 2018, we have reinstated our share repurchase program. On February 15, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase to the current authorization for the stock repurchase program by $600.0 million to $1.0 billion in the aggregate. On August 21, 2018, the Board of Directors approved an increase to the current authorization for the stock repurchase program by an additional $2.0 billion to $8.2 billion in the aggregate. Under the repurchase program, we may repurchase outstanding shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions. Unless terminated earlier by resolution of our Board of Directors, the repurchase program will expire when we have repurchased all shares authorized for repurchase under the repurchase program.50ITEM 6.ExhibitsExhibit No. ANALOG DEVICES, INC.