FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTSCertain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including without limitation, in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words “believe,” “project,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements are identified at “Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2018. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.3PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATIONITEM I. JHA also provides continuing support and services to customers using in-house or outsourced systems. The Company recognizes revenue when or as it satisfies each performance obligation by transferring control of a solution or service to the customer.Determination of Transaction PriceThe amount of revenue recognized is based on the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring goods and services to the customer. The Company’s contracts with its customers frequently contain some component of variable consideration. The Company estimates variable consideration in its contracts primarily using the expected value method, based on both historical and current information. Where appropriate, the Company may constrain the estimated variable consideration included in the transaction price in the event of a high degree of uncertainty as to the final consideration amount.Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are not included in revenue. Whether the Company recognizes revenue based on the gross amount billed to the customer or the net amount retained involves judgment in determining whether the Company controls the good or service before it is transferred to the customer. This assessment is made at the performance obligation level.8Table of ContentsAllocation of Transaction PriceThe transaction price, once determined, is allocated between the various performance obligations in the contract based upon their relative standalone selling prices. The standalone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells each good or service. The Company’s arrangements for these services typically require the Company to “stand-ready” to provide specific services on a when and if needed basis by processing an unspecified number of transactions over the contractual term. Amounts of revenue allocated to these services are recognized as those services are performed. Customers are typically billed monthly for transactions processed during the month. The Company evaluates tiered pricing to determine if a material right exists. If, after that evaluation, we determine a material right does exist, we assign value to the material right based upon standalone selling price.Outsourcing and CloudOutsourcing and cloud revenue is generated from data and item processing services and hosting fees.The Company’s arrangements for these services typically require the Company to “stand-ready” to provide specific services on a when and if needed basis. Amounts of revenue allocated to these services are recognized as those services are performed. Data and item processing services are typically billed monthly. The Company evaluates tiered pricing to determine if a material right exists. If, after that evaluation, we determine a material right does exist, we assign value to the material right based upon standalone selling price.Product Delivery and ServicesProduct delivery and services revenue is generated primarily from software licensing and related professional services and hardware delivery. Software licenses, along with any professional services from which they are not considered distinct, are recognized as they are delivered to the customer. Hardware revenue is recognized upon delivery. Professional services that are distinct are recognized as the services are performed. Deconversion fees are also included within Product delivery and services, and are considered a contract modification. Therefore, the Company recognizes these fees over the remaining modified contract term. In-House SupportIn-house support revenue is generated from software maintenance for ongoing client support and software usage, which includes a license and ongoing client support. The Company’s arrangements for these services typically require the Company to “stand-ready” to provide specific services on a when and if needed basis. Software maintenance fees are typically billed to the customer annually in advance and recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Software usage is typically billed annually in advance, with the license delivered and recognized at the outset, and the maintenance fee recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Accordingly, the Company utilizes the practical expedient which allows entities to disregard the effects of a financing component when the contract period is one year or less.9Table of ContentsDisaggregation of RevenueThe tables below present the Company's revenue disaggregated by type of revenue. Refer to Note 9, Reportable Segment Information, for disaggregated revenue by type and reportable segment. The majority of the Company’s revenue is earned domestically, with revenue from customers outside the United States comprising less than 1% of total revenue. The current portion of contract assets is reported within prepaid expenses and other in the condensed consolidated balance sheet, and the non-current portion is included in other non-current assets. Contract balances are reported in a net contract asset or liability position on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.The Company analyzes contract language to identify if a significant financing component does exists, and would adjust the transaction price for any material effects of the time value of money if the timing of payments provides either party to the contract with a significant benefit of financing the transaction. The Company expects to recognize approximately 30% over the next 12 months, 20% in 13-24 months, and the balance thereafter.10Table of ContentsContract CostsThe Company incurs incremental costs to obtain a contract as well as costs to fulfill contracts with customers that are expected to be recovered. These costs consist primarily of sales commissions incurred only if a contract is obtained and customer conversion or implementation related costs. Capitalized costs totaled $200,870 and $181,032, at September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively.Capitalized costs are amortized based on the transfer of goods or services to which the asset relates, in line with the percentage of revenue recognized for each performance obligation to which the costs are allocated. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, amortization of deferred contract costs was $26,821 and $22,508, respectively. There were no impairment losses in relation to capitalized costs for the periods presented.Property and EquipmentProperty and equipment is stated at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Accumulated depreciation at September 30, 2018 totaled $372,059 and at June 30, 2018 totaled $364,153.Intangible AssetsIntangible assets consist of goodwill, customer relationships, computer software, and trade names acquired in business acquisitions in addition to internally developed computer software. Accumulated amortization of intangible assets totaled $630,161 and $602,479 at September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively.Common StockThe Board of Directors has authorized the Company to repurchase shares of its common stock. Under this authorization, the Company may finance its share repurchases with available cash reserves or borrowings on its existing line-of-credit. The share repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables and may be suspended at any time. At September 30, 2018, there were 26,108 shares in treasury stock and the Company had the remaining authority to repurchase up to 3,883 additional shares. The total cost of treasury shares at September 30, 2018 is $1,055,260. During the first three months of fiscal 2019, the Company repurchased no treasury shares. At June 30, 2018, there were 26,108 shares in treasury stock and the Company had authority to repurchase up to 3,883 additional shares.Dividends declared per share were $0.37 and $0.31, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.The dividend declared during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was paid on October 2, 2018, therefore is not reported as a cash outflow for the period ended September 30, 2018. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, in May 2014. The new standard has superseded much of the authoritative literature for revenue recognition. The new model enacts a five-step process for achieving the core principle, which is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The standard was effective for the Company on July 1, 2018. The Company adopted the new standard using the full retrospective transition approach, using certain practical expedients. The Company has not disclosed the amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations for reporting periods presented before the date of initial application. Also, the Company did not separately consider the effects of contract modifications that occurred before the beginning of the earliest reporting period presented, but reflects the aggregate effect of all modifications that occurred before the beginning of the earliest period presented. As a result, all fiscal 2018 financial information has been adjusted for the effects of applying ASC 606. Due to the inability to establish VSOE, the Company had previously deferred all revenue on software-related goods and services on a master contract until all the goods and services had been delivered. Under ASC 606, VSOE is no longer required for separation of otherwise distinct performance obligations within a revenue arrangement. This change has resulted in earlier recognition of revenue for the Company’s software-related goods and services, leading to a decrease in deferred revenue balances within our adjusted condensed consolidated balance sheets. The adoption of this standard did not have any impact on our financial statements.15Table of ContentsNot Yet AdoptedThe FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases, in February 2016. This ASU aims to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet and requiring disclosure of key information regarding leasing arrangements. Specifically, the standard requires operating lease commitments to be recorded on the balance sheet as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets, and the cost of those operating leases to be amortized on a straight-line basis. ASU No. 2016-02 will be effective for JHA's annual reporting period beginning July 1, 2019 and early adoption is permitted. At transition, a modified retrospective approach must be utilized to measure leases as of the beginning of the earliest period presented, however, the FASB has provided certain practical expedients, which the Company is currently evaluating. The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard will have on our consolidated financial statements and when we will adopt it. In August of 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. The costs are capitalized or expensed depending on the nature of the costs and the project stage during which they are incurred, consistent with costs for internal-use software. The amendments in this update can be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. The ASU will be effective for the Company on July 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the guidance will have on our financial statements. NOTE 3. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTSFor cash equivalents, amounts receivable or payable and short-term borrowings, fair values approximate carrying value, based on the short-term nature of the assets and liabilities. The Company's estimates of the fair value for financial assets and financial liabilities are based on the framework established in the fair value accounting guidance. The framework is based on the inputs used in valuation, gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets, and requires that observable inputs be used in the valuations when available. These assets are expected to be disposed of by sale in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.16Table of ContentsNOTE 4. DEBTRevolving credit facilityThe revolving credit facility allows for borrowings of up to $300,000, which may be increased by the Company at any time until maturity to $600,000. The credit facility is guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of the Company. The credit facility is subject to various financial covenants that require the Company to maintain certain financial ratios as defined in the agreement. As of September 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants. The revolving loan terminates February 20, 2020. At September 30, 2018, there was no outstanding revolving loan balance. There was also no outstanding balance at June 30, 2018. Other lines of creditThe Company has an unsecured bank credit line which provides for funding of up to $5,000 and bears interest at the prime rate less 1%. The credit line was renewed in April 2017 and expires on April 30, 2019. At September 30, 2018, no amount was outstanding. There was also no balance outstanding at June 30, 2018. InterestThe Company paid interest of $65 and $189 during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.NOTE 5. INCOME TAXESThe effective tax rate was 19.2% of income before income taxes for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, compared to 31.1% for the same quarter in fiscal 2018. The staff of the U.S. SEC has recognized the complexity of reflecting the impacts of the TCJA and on December 22, 2017, issued guidance in SAB 118. The guidance clarifies accounting for income taxes under ASC 740 if information is not available or complete and provides for up to a one-year period in which to complete the required analyses and accounting. As the amounts are finalized during the measurement period, the required adjustments, if any, will be recorded in the quarter when the final amount is determined. No adjustments were recorded in the three months ended September 30, 2018.The Company paid income taxes of $388 and received refunds of $679 for the three months ended September 30, 2018. For the three months ended September 30, 2017, the Company paid income taxes, net of refunds, of $747.At September 30, 2018, the Company had $11,065 of gross unrecognized tax benefits, $10,188 of which, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. We had accrued interest and penalties of $1,413 and $1,051 related to uncertain tax positions at September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.The U.S. federal and state income tax returns for fiscal year 2015 and all subsequent years remain subject to examination as of September 30, 2018 under statute of limitations rules. We anticipate potential changes due to lapsing statutes of limitations and examination closures could reduce the unrecognized tax benefits balance by $500 - $1,500 within twelve months of September 30, 2018.NOTE 6. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATIONOur operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 included $1,771 and $1,513 of stock-based compensation costs, respectively. The plan allows for grants of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock shares or units, and performance shares or units. The maximum number of shares authorized for issuance under the plan is 3,000. For stock options, terms and vesting periods of the options are determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors when granted. The option period must expire not more than ten years from the option grant date. The options granted under this plan are exercisable beginning three years after the grant date at an exercise price equal to 100% of the fair market value of the stock at the grant date. The weighted average remaining contractual term on options currently exercisable as of September 30, 2018 was 0.75 years.Restricted Stock AwardsThe Company issues both share awards and unit awards under the 2015 EIP, and previously issued these awards through the 2005 Restricted Stock Plan. EARNINGS PER SHAREThe following table reflects the reconciliation between basic and diluted earnings per share. Stock options and restricted stock have been included in the calculation of earnings per share to the extent they are dilutive. This acquisition was partially funded by a draw on the Company's revolving credit facility, with the remaining amount funded by existing operating cash. The addition of Ensenta 19Table of ContentsCorporation to the JHA Payment Solutions Group expands the Company’s ability to conduct real-time transactions with third-party platforms, extending its presence in the credit union market through shared branching technology. Management has completed a preliminary purchase price allocation of Ensenta and its assessment of the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities assumed. The amounts shown above may change as management continues to evaluate the income tax implications of this business combination.The goodwill of $91,098 arising from this acquisition consists largely of the growth potential, synergies and economies of scale expected from combining the operations of the Company with those of Ensenta, together with the value of Ensenta's assembled workforce. The goodwill from this acquisition has been allocated to our Payments segment and is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.Identifiable intangible assets from this acquisition consist of customer relationships of $37,800, computer software of $16,505, and other intangible assets of $4,501. The weighted average amortization period for acquired customer relationships, computer software, and other intangible assets is 15 years, 10 years, and 10 years, respectively.Current assets were inclusive of cash acquired of $7,274. The fair value of current assets acquired included accounts receivable of $4,668, none of which were expected to be uncollectible.Costs incurred related to the acquisition of Ensenta in fiscal 2018 totaled $339 for legal, valuation, and other fees, and were expensed as incurred within selling, general, and administrative expense.The Company's consolidated statements of income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 included revenue of $8,172 and after-tax net income of $2,044 resulting from Ensenta's operations.The accompanying consolidated statements of income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 do not include any revenues and expenses related to this acquisition prior to the acquisition date. The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information for the period ended September 30, 2017 is presented as if this acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented. In addition, this unaudited pro forma financial information is provided for illustrative purposes only and should not be relied upon as necessarily being indicative of the historical results that would have been obtained if the acquisition had actually occurred during those periods, or the results that may be obtained in the future as a result of the acquisition. Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 Actual ProformaRevenue$392,543 $368,048Net Income83,551 67,733Basic Earnings Per Share$1.08 $0.88Diluted Earnings Per Share$1.08 $0.87Vanguard Software GroupOn August 31, 2017, the Company acquired all of the equity interest of Vanguard Software Group, a Florida-based company specializing in the underwriting, spreading, and online decisioning of commercial loans, for $10,744 paid in cash. This acquisition was funded using existing operating cash. The addition of Vanguard Software Group to the 20Table of ContentsCompany's ProfitStars® Lending Solutions Group expands functionality offered to clients, allowing for near-real-time communication with JHA's core processing and ancillary solutions, and also enhances cross-sell opportunities.Management has completed a purchase price allocation of Vanguard Software Group and its assessment of the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities assumed. The goodwill from this acquisition has been allocated to our Complementary segment and is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.Identifiable intangible assets from this acquisition consist of customer relationships of $2,234, computer software of $1,426, and other intangible assets of $540. The weighted average amortization periods for acquired customer relationships, computer software, and other intangible assets are 15 years, 10 years, and 10 years, respectively.Current assets were inclusive of cash acquired of $289. The fair value of current assets acquired included accounts receivable of $847, none of which were expected to be uncollectible.Costs incurred related to the acquisition of Vanguard Software Group were immaterial for the periods presented.The Company's consolidated statements of income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 included revenue of $525 and an after-tax net loss of $180 resulting from Vanguard Software Group's operations. For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, Vanguard Software Group contributed revenue of $99 and an after-tax net loss of $127 to the Company's consolidated statements of income.The accompanying consolidated statements of income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 do not include any revenues and expenses related to this acquisition prior to the acquisition date. The impact of this acquisition was considered immaterial to both the current and prior periods of our consolidated financial statements and pro forma financial information has not been provided.NOTE 9. The Complementary segment provides additional software and services that can be integrated with our Core solutions or used independently. Only revenue and costs of revenue are considered in the evaluation for each segment. An immaterial adjustment was made to reclassify revenue recognized in fiscal 2018 from the Core to the Corporate and Other Segment. Agiletics is a provider of escrow, investment, and liquidity management solutions for banks serving commercial customers. On October 5, 2018, the Company acquired 100% equity interest in BOLTS Technologies, Inc., for a net cash outlay of $15,000. BOLTS Technologies is the developer of boltsOPEN, a next-generation digital account opening solution. Both acquisitions were funded with operating cash. We have not yet completed our purchase accounting procedures with respect to these acquisitions. The impact of these acquisitions is considered immaterial to our condensed consolidated financial statements and pro forma financial information has not been provided. 23Table of ContentsITEM 2. Its solutions are marketed and supported through three primary brands. Jack Henry Banking® is a top provider of information and transaction processing solutions to U.S. banks ranging from community banks to multi-billion dollar asset institutions. Symitar® is a leading provider of information and transaction processing solutions for credit unions of all sizes. ProfitStars® provides specialized products and services that enable financial institutions of every asset size and charter, and diverse corporate entities outside the financial services industry, to mitigate and control risks, optimize revenue and growth opportunities, and contain costs. JHA's integrated solutions are available for in-house installation and outsourced delivery. Our two primary revenue streams are "Services and support" and "Processing". We continually seek opportunities to increase revenue while at the same time containing costs to expand margins. All dollar amounts in the following discussion are in thousands, except per share amounts.RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe adoption of ASC 606 has impacted the timing of our revenue recognition, as discussed in detail in Note 1, Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the condensed consolidated financial statements within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The prior year numbers presented below have been re-cast as part of our full retrospective adoption of the new standard.In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, total revenue increased 9%, or $31,259, compared to the same quarter in the prior year. Excluding a decrease of $2,883 in deconversion fees quarter-over-quarter, total revenue increased 10% for the quarter. Operating expenses increased 9% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Headcount increased 6% at September 30, 2018 compared to September 30, 2017, leading to increased salaries and benefits. This was partially due to the Ensenta acquisition, which occurred during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. The TCJA lowered our effective income tax rate, which is the primary reason for the decrease in our provision for income taxes by 34% compared to the prior year quarter. The above changes led to an increase in net income of 25% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the first quarter in fiscal 2018.We move into the second quarter of fiscal 2019 following strong performance in the first quarter. Significant portions of our business continue to come from recurring revenues and our healthy sales pipeline is also encouraging. Our customers continue to face regulatory and operational challenges which our products and services address, and in these times we believe they have an even greater need for our solutions that directly address institutional profitability, efficiency, and security. Our strong balance sheet, access to extensive lines of credit, the strength of our existing product line and an unwavering commitment to superior customer service should position us well to address current and future opportunities. A detailed discussion of the major components of the results of operations for the three months ending September 30, 2018 follows. Excluding a $2,883 reduction in deconversion fees, services and support revenue grew 11%. The increase was primarily due to increases in our outsourcing and cloud and in-house support revenue streams. The increased outsourcing and cloud revenue was partially driven by added revenue from Ensenta, supplemented by organic growth in hosting and data processing. The increased in-house support revenue was primarily due to higher software usage revenue, resulting mainly from the addition of new customers in the trailing twelve months. Excluding costs related to deconversions and bonuses provided by the Company in response to the lower tax rate resulting from the TCJA, cost of revenue increased 7%. The increase was primarily due to a 7% expansion in headcount at September 30, 2018 compared to September 30, 2017 driving increased salaries and benefits, partially due to the acquisition of Ensenta. Other factors contributing to the increase include higher direct costs of product, including spending related to our strategic partnership with First Data and PSCU to expand our credit and debit card platform, and increased amortization related to capitalized software. The Company continues to focus on cost management. However, these expenses remained consistent with the prior year as a percentage of total revenue. Excluding bonuses provided by the Company in response to the lower tax rate resulting from the TCJA, selling, general, and administrative expense increased 9%. Gain on Disposal of a BusinessFor the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company did not dispose of any businesses. NET INCOMENet income increased 25% to $83,551, or $1.08 per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $66,870, or $0.86 per diluted share, in the same period of fiscal 2018, resulting in a 25% increase in diluted earnings per share. The lowered effective tax rate contributed to the large increase.REPORTABLE SEGMENT DISCUSSIONThe Company is a leading provider of technology solutions and payment processing services primarily for financial services organizations. The Complementary segment provides additional software and services that can be integrated with our core solutions or used independently. Excluding deconversion fees, which totaled $3,985 for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $7,080 for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, revenue in the Core segment increased 11%. The increased revenue in the Core segment was driven by increased in-house support revenue, resulting mainly from the addition of new software usage customers in the trailing twelve months, and higher outsourcing and cloud revenue due mostly to increased data processing. Excluding deconversion revenue of $2,073 from the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and $3,099 from the first quarter of fiscal 2018, revenue increased 10% in the Payments segment. The improvement in the most recent quarter was primarily due to increased remittance revenue within the processing line, partially due to added revenue from Ensenta, and increased outsourcing and cloud revenue in the services and support line. Card processing also increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the prior year first quarter. Cost of revenue increased 15%, partially due to increased headcount and amortization expenses related to Ensenta, as well as increased spending related to our strategic partnership with First Data and PSCU to expand our credit and debit card platform. The increase was driven by increases in all three categories of services and support revenue, as well as transaction and digital processing revenue. Cost of revenue increased 5% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, but declined as a percentage of revenue. Revenue classified in the Corporate and Other segment includes revenue from hardware and other products not specifically attributed to any of the other three segments. Cost of revenue for the Corporate and Other segment includes operating cost not directly attributable to any of the other three segments. The increased cost of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 is primarily related to bonuses provided by the Company in response to the lower tax rate resulting from the TCJA. 27Table of ContentsLIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCESThe Company's cash and cash equivalents increased to $114,872 at September 30, 2018 from $31,440 at June 30, 2018. This was partially offset by $33 of proceeds from asset sales. Cash used in investing activities for the first three months of fiscal 2018 totaled $40,285 and included $22,976 for the development of software; $10,455 for the acquisition of Vanguard Software Group; capital expenditures of $3,708; and $3,452 for the purchase and development of internal use software, partially offset by $200 of proceeds from the sale of businesses and $106 of proceeds from the sale of assets. Financing activities used cash of $11,039 for the first three months of fiscal 2019, all of which was net cash outflow from the issuance of stock and tax related to stock-based compensation. Financing activities used cash in the first three months of fiscal 2018 totaling $109,162. Cash used was $50,000 for repayments on borrowings, $30,018 for the purchase of treasury shares, dividends paid to stockholders of $23,904, and $5,240 net cash outflow from the issuance of stock and tax related to stock-based compensation. Capital Requirements and ResourcesThe Company generally uses existing resources and funds generated from operations to meet its capital requirements. Capital expenditures totaling $24,001 and $3,708 for the three months ending September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, were made primarily for additional equipment and the improvement of existing facilities. These additions were funded from cash generated by operations. Total consolidated capital expenditures on facilities and equipment for the Company for fiscal year 2019 are not expected to exceed $50,000 and will be funded from cash generated by operations.The Board of Directors has authorized the Company to repurchase shares of its common stock. Under this authorization, the Company may finance its share repurchases with available cash reserves or borrowings on its existing line-of-credit. The share repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables and may be suspended at any time. At September 30, 2018, there were 26,108 shares in treasury stock and the Company had the remaining authority to repurchase up to 3,883 additional shares. The total cost of treasury shares at September 30, 2018 is $1,055,260. During the first three months of fiscal 2019, the Company repurchased no treasury shares. At June 30, 2018, there were 26,108 shares in treasury stock and the Company had authority to repurchase up to 3,883 additional shares.Revolving credit facilityThe revolving credit facility allows for borrowings of up to $300,000, which may be increased by the Company at any time until maturity to $600,000. The credit facility is guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of the Company. The credit facility is subject to various financial covenants that 28Table of Contentsrequire the Company to maintain certain financial ratios as defined in the agreement. As of September 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants. The revolving loan terminates February 20, 2020. At September 30, 2018, there was no outstanding revolving loan balance. There was also no outstanding balance at June 30, 2018. Other lines of creditThe Company has an unsecured bank credit line which provides for funding of up to $5,000 and bears interest at the prime rate less 1%. The credit line was renewed in April 2017 and expires on April 30, 2019. At September 30, 2018, no amount was outstanding. There was also no balance outstanding at June 30, 2018. 29ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKMarket risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. We are currently exposed to credit risk on credit extended to customers and at times are exposed to interest risk on outstanding debt. We do not currently use any derivative financial instruments. We actively monitor these risks through a variety of controlled procedures involving senior management.Based on the controls in place and the credit worthiness of the customer base, we believe the credit risk associated with the extension of credit to our customers will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.We have no outstanding debt with variable interest rates as of September 30, 2018, and are therefore not currently exposed to interest rate risk.ITEM 4. Based upon that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms. For this purpose, disclosure controls and procedures include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information that is required to be disclosed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.Changes in Internal Control over Financial ReportingIn connection with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, Topic 606, we did implement changes to our processes related to revenue recognition and the control activities within those processes. These included the development of new policies based on the new standard, implementation of a new system utilized to track revenue based on the new standard, and changes to gathering of information provided for disclosures. There were no additional changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. PART II. OTHER INFORMATIONITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSWe are subject to various routine legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. In the opinion of management, any liabilities resulting from current lawsuits are not expected, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These liabilities are reviewed at least quarterly and adjusted to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information and events pertaining to a particular case or proceeding.ITEM 2. There were 6,835 shares surrendered to the Company to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with employee restricted stock awards. These authorizations have no specific dollar or share price targets and no expiration dates.31Table of ContentsITEM 6. EXHIBITS31.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer.31.2Certification of the Chief Financial Officer.32.1Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.32.2Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.