Item 1. Financial Statements
See accompanying notes to condensed and consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed and consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed and consolidated financial statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed and consolidated financial statements.
Overview
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government. The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services. The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by three market service line organizations. Each of the Company’s three customer facing operating segments is focused on providing the Company’s comprehensive technical and enterprise IT service offerings to one or more agencies of the U.S federal government. The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation
Restructuring 
During fiscal 2018, the Company initiated restructuring activities (the "Restructuring") intended to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, and better position the Company to drive future growth. The restructuring activities consisted of involuntary and voluntary terminations and the consolidation of existing leased facilities. The Company completed the Restructuring in fiscal 2018 with total restructuring costs of approximately $13 million, comprised of $6 million for employee severance and $7 million of lease exit costs. $1 million and $3 million of restructuring costs for employee severance were included in cost of revenues in the condensed and consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2017, respectively. The Company made $1 million in cash payments for severance during the nine months ended November 2, 2018 and made no cash payments for severance during the three months ended November 2, 2018 or the three and nine months ended November 3, 2017. The liability associated with lease exit costs will be substantially settled within three years of the completion of the Restructuring.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts. Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and generally are classified as current, based on our contract operating cycle.
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are reported in other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified to earnings in a manner that matches the timing of the earnings impact of the hedged transactions. 
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates. Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value. The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled. See Note 8 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Inventory
Inventory is substantially comprised of finished goods inventory purchased for resale to customers, such as tires and lubricants, and is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The Company evaluates current inventory against historical and planned usage to estimate the appropriate provision for obsolete inventory.
The Company recognized a $25 million provision for inventory within cost of revenues during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018 related to firm purchase commitments on a firm-fixed price program.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements and some cost guidance included in the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). This ASU is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The ASU also requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. 
The Company adopted the standard on February 3, 2018, using the modified retrospective method. Under this method, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of adoption as an adjustment to its opening balance of retained earnings on February 3, 2018. In determining the cumulative impact of the adoption the Company applied the provisions of ASC 606 only to contracts that had not yet been completed at the date of adoption. 
Prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted, but the Company will maintain dual reporting for the year of initial application, disclosing the effect of adoption.
Under the new standard, the Company continues to recognize revenue over time as services are rendered to fulfill its contractual obligations; however, the Company generally accounts for customer option period exercises (renewals) and service contract modifications prospectively, instead of as a cumulative adjustment to revenue under a single unit of accounting. Also, under the new standard, award and incentive-based fees generally are recognized during the discrete periods of performance to which they relate as opposed to on a cumulative basis over the contract period. The net impact to opening retained earnings from these changes as a result of the adoption was $3 million.
The Company no longer defers the recognition of revenues and costs associated with significant upfront material acquisitions on programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion. Under the new standard, the Company recognizes revenue on an adjusted cost-to-cost basis, where the amount of revenue that is recognized is equal to the amount of costs incurred plus profit based on the adjusted cost input measure of progress. This change resulted in a $15 million reduction in inventories, prepaid expenses and other current assets and accounts payable and accrued liabilities on February 3, 2018, but had no impact on the adjustment to opening retained earnings. 
These impacts were primarily attributable to the change in accounting for programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes the existing lease accounting standards (Topic 840). Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for all leases with lease terms in excess of twelve months. The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease. The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases. Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). In July 2018, the FASB provided an optional transition method of adoption, permitting entities to recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption as opposed to the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements. ASU 2016-02 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The Company intends to adopt using the optional transition method. The Company is implementing new lease accounting software and is designing new processes and internal controls. The Company continues to evaluate the standard, but has not quantified the impact of adoption on its financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract, which aligns the capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the existing capitalization requirements for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (Subtopic 350-40). ASU 2018-15 becomes effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and may be adopted either retrospectively or prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its financial statements.
Other Accounting Standards Updates effective after November 2, 2018 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is computed by dividing net income by the basic weighted-average number of shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is computed similarly to basic EPS, except the weighted-average number of shares outstanding is increased to include the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and other stock-based awards.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes revenue when, or as, we satisfy our performance obligations under a contract. A performance obligation is the unit of account for revenue recognition and refers to a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct service or good to the customer. The majority of the Company’s contracts contain a single performance obligation involving a significant integration of various activities that are performed together to deliver a combined service or solution. Performance obligations may be satisfied over time or at a point in time, but the majority of the Company’s performance obligations are satisfied over time. The Company selects the appropriate measure of progress for revenue recognition based on the nature of the performance obligation, contract type and other pertinent contract terms.
Over time performance obligations may involve a series of recurring services, such as network operations and maintenance, operation and program support services, IT outsourcing services, and other IT arrangements where the Company is standing ready to provide support, when-and-if needed. Such performance obligations are satisfied over time because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of our performance as services are provided. Alternatively, over time performance obligations may involve the completion of a contract deliverable. Examples include systems integration, network engineering, network design, and engineering and build services. Deliverable-based performance obligations are satisfied over time when the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that is controlled by the customer, or when the Company’s performance creates an asset that is customized to the customer’s specifications and the Company has a right to payment, including profit, for work performed to date. 
For performance obligations in which the Company does not transfer control over time, we recognize revenue at the point-in-time when the customer obtains control of the related asset, usually at the time of shipment or upon delivery. The Company accrues for shipping and handling costs occurring after the point-in-time control transfers to the customer. 
Contract fulfillment costs are expensed as incurred except for certain costs incurred for transition, set-up or other fulfillment activities under contracts, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, which generally includes the base contract period of performance and anticipated renewal periods. The Company provides for anticipated losses on contracts with the U.S. government by recording an expense for the total expected loss during the period in which the losses are first determined.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of each distinct performance obligation within the contract. Because the Company typically provides customized services and solutions that are specific to a single customer’s requirements, standalone selling price is most often estimated based on expected costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
Changes in Estimates
Aggregate changes in these estimates increased operating income by $19 million ($0.33 per diluted share) and $16 million ($0.28 per diluted share) for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018, respectively, and increased operating income by $5 million ($0.07 per diluted share) and $1 million ($0.01 per diluted share) for the three and nine months ended November 3, 2017, respectively. Changes in these estimates increased net income by $14 million and $12 million for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018. In addition, revenues were $4 million and $7 million higher for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018, respectively, due to net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods. 
Disaggregation of Revenues
Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of billing and cash receipts from customers. Amounts are invoiced as work progresses, typically biweekly or monthly in arrears, or upon achievement of contractual milestones. We record a contract asset when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing, or a contract liability when cash is received in advance of recognizing revenue. A contract asset is a right to consideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. Contract assets include unbillable receivables and contract retentions, but exclude billed and billable receivables. Billed and billable receivables are rights to consideration which are unconditional other than to the passage of time. Contract liabilities include customer advances, cash collected in excess of revenues and deferred revenue. Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and are generally classified as current based on our contract operating cycle. Deferred revenue attributable to long-term contract material renewal options may be classified as non-current when the option renewal period will not occur within one year of the balance sheet date.
The changes in the Company's contract assets and contract liabilities during the current period primarily results from the timing differences between the Company's performance, invoicing and customer payments. During the nine months ended November 2, 2018, the Company recognized revenues of $10 million relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 3, 2018. $1 million in revenues 
were recognized for the three months ended November 2, 2018, relating to amounts that were included in the opening balance of contract liabilities - current as of February 3, 2018. 
Deferred Costs
The Company defers fulfillment costs incurred to transfer service to a customer prior to the establishment of a contract provided recovery is probable. These pre-contract costs are typically expensed upon contract award unless they are eligible for capitalization.
The Company performs periodic reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs. The carrying amount of the asset is compared to the remaining amount of consideration the Company expects to receive for the services to which the asset relates, less the costs that relate directly to providing those services that have not yet been recognized. If the carrying amount is not recoverable, an impairment loss is recognized.
Pre-contract costs of $1 million and $3 million were expensed during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018. Fulfillment costs of $2 million were amortized during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018.
Remaining Performance Obligations
As of November 2, 2018, the Company had $1.1 billion of remaining performance obligations. Remaining performance obligations exclude contracts with original durations of one year or less, contracts in which we recognize revenue using the as-invoiced practical expedient and any variable consideration that is allocated entirely to unsatisfied performance obligations on our supply chain contracts. The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 65% of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months and approximately 85% over the next 24 months, with the remaining recognized thereafter.
On September 9, 2018, the Company entered into the Merger Agreement by and among Science Applications International Corporation, Engility Holdings, Inc., ("Engility"), and Raptors Merger Sub, Inc., pursuant to which the Company will acquire Engility (the "Merger"). At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of Engility common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.450 shares of the Science Applications International Corporation common stock. The Company amended its credit agreement to provide for a new five-year senior secured $1.1 billion term loan facility to be funded in connection with the Merger, see Note 7. The proceeds will be used to repay Engility's existing credit facility and outstanding notes. The estimated transaction value is $2.1 billion based on the Company's per share closing price of $69.39 on November 2, 2018 including the repayment of Engility's net debt. The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by both companies' Board of Directors. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval of both the Science Applications International Corporation and Engility stockholders, and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Stock Options
During the nine months ended November 2, 2018, the Company granted certain employees 0.1 million stock options with a weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average grant date fair value of $85.62 and $19.48, respectively. These options will expire on the seventh anniversary of the grant date and will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a three-year period.
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
During the nine months ended November 2, 2018, the Company granted certain employees 0.4 million RSUs with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $85.01, which will vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a four-year period.
Performance Shares
During the nine months ended November 2, 2018, the Company granted to certain employees 0.1 million performance share awards with a grant date fair value of $85.31 per award. These awards will cliff vest at the end of the third fiscal year following the grant date, subject to meeting the minimum service requirements and the achievement of certain annual and cumulative financial metrics of the Company’s performance, with the number of shares ultimately issued, if any, ranging up to 150% of the specified target shares.
On February 7, 2018, the Company entered into the Second Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (Second Amendment) reducing the interest rate margins by 0.25%, 0.50%, and 0.25%, across all leverage ratios for the Term Loan A Facility due August 2021, the Term Loan B Facility due May 2022, and the Revolving Credit Facility due August 2021, respectively. Effective upon execution of the Second Amendment, the applicable margin with respect to the Term Loan A Facility due August 2021 and borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility due August 2021 ranged from 1.25% to 2.00% for Eurocurrency Rate loans, and 0.25% to 1.00% for Base Rate loans. Under the Second Amendment, interest rate margins for the Term Loan B Facility due May 2022 were 2.00%, subject to a 0.75% floor for Eurocurrency Rate loans, or 1.00% for Base Rate loans. During the three months ended May 4, 2018, the Company incurred and paid $2 million in fees associated with the Second Amendment, including $1 million of deferred financing fees. 
The Term Loan B Facility due October 2025 was funded in full in October 2018 and the proceeds were used to repay all indebtedness outstanding under the Second Amendment and related expenses. At the time of the Merger, the Term Loan A Facility Commitment may be drawn in full and the proceeds used to partially finance the Merger, pay fees and expenses associated with the Merger, and for general corporate purposes. If the Merger Agreement is terminated or abandoned, the reduced Term Loan A Facility Commitment will be drawn in full and the proceeds used to repay a portion of the Term Loan B Facility due October 2025. 
During the three months ended November 2, 2018, the Company incurred $17 million of debt issue costs associated with the Third Amended Credit Agreement. The Company recognized $5 million in expenses associated with the Third Amended Credit Agreement, which is included in interest expense and includes a $4 million loss on extinguishment of debt. The Company deferred $12 million in financing fees that are amortized to interest expense utilizing the effective interest method.
then applicable Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Third Amended Credit Agreement). The Company also pays a commitment fee with respect to undrawn amounts under the Revolving Credit Facility ranging from 0.20% to 0.35%.
Borrowings under the Term Loan A Facility Commitment will amortize quarterly beginning on January 31, 2020 at 1.25% of the original borrowed amount thereunder, with such quarterly amortization payments increasing to 1.875% on January 31, 2021 and then to 2.50% on January 31, 2022. The Term Loan B Facility due October 2025 will amortize quarterly at 0.25% of the original borrowed amount (less any amount repaid with proceeds of a borrowing under the Term Loan A Facility Commitment) beginning on January 31, 2019. Beginning with SAIC’s fiscal year ending on or about January 31, 2020, annual mandatory prepayments of a portion of SAIC’s Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Third Amended Credit Agreement) will be required. The Term Loan B Facility due October 2025 matures on October 31, 2025 and future borrowings under the Term Loan A Facility Commitment and the Revolving Credit Facility mature on October 31, 2023. As of November 2, 2018, there are no balances outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility due October 2023.
The Third Amended Credit Agreement contains certain restrictive covenants applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries including a requirement to maintain a Senior Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Third Amended Credit Agreement) of not greater than 3.75 to 1.00 until the effectiveness of the Merger, not greater than 4.50 to 1.00 upon the effectiveness of the Merger and for the succeeding six fiscal quarters, and not greater than 4.00 to 1.00 thereafter, unless a Permitted Acquisition (as defined in the Third Amended Credit Agreement) occurs in which case not greater than 4.25 to 1.00 for three consecutive quarters following such a transaction. As of November 2, 2018, the Company was in compliance with the covenants under the Third Amended Credit Agreement.
The Company is party to fixed interest rate swap instruments that are designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges to manage risks associated with interest rate fluctuations on a portion of the Company’s floating rate debt. The counterparties to all swap agreements are financial institutions. See Note 9 for the unrealized change in fair values on cash flow hedges recognized in other comprehensive income and the amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings for the current and comparative periods presented. The Company recognized no ineffectiveness during the periods presented prior to the adoption of ASU 2017-12. The Company estimates that it will reclassify $2 million of unrealized gains from accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings in the twelve months following November 2, 2018.
The following table presents the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to the Company’s fixed interest rate swap cash flow hedges that are discussed in Note 8.
AAV Termination for Convenience
On August 27, 2018, the Company received a stop-work order from the United States Marine Corps on the Assault Amphibious Vehicle (AAV) contract and on October 3, 2018 the program was terminated for convenience by the customer. 
Beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that would be necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of the program, including portions of the LRIP phase which had not yet been awarded. As a result of the program termination, the Company recognized an inventory provision for long-lead items, see Note 1. The Company is continuing to negotiate with the Marine Corps to recover all costs associated with the termination.
Scitor Acquisition
On May 4, 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of Scitor, a leading global provider of technical services to the U.S. intelligence community and other U.S. government customers. The acquisition was funded from cash on hand and increased borrowings. Purchase consideration paid to acquire Scitor was $764 million (net of cash acquired), including $43 million which was deposited to escrow accounts. In August 2015, $3 million was released from escrow to the sellers after finalizing the working capital adjustment and another $13 million was released in September 2016 that was held to secure a portion of the sellers’ indemnification obligations. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company received a $6 million distribution from escrow to settle a claim, which was recognized as a reduction to selling, general, and administrative costs. There is no remaining amount in escrow.
Contingent losses that were unknown at the time of separation and arise from the operation of the Company’s historical business or the former Parent’s historical corporate losses will be shared between the parties to the extent that losses in any such category exceed $50 million in the aggregate. If they arise and exceed the $50 million threshold, the Company will be responsible for 30% of the former Parent’s incremental contingent losses on corporate claims (and former Parent will be responsible for 70% of the Company’s incremental losses on claims relating to operations that exceed $50 million).
The Company is routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect, in particular, to its role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside of the United States. U.S. government agencies, including the DCAA, the Defense Contract Management Agency and others, routinely audit and review a contractor’s performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices, and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of the contractor’s compliance with government standards for its business systems. Adverse findings in these investigations, audits, or reviews can lead to criminal, civil or administrative proceedings, and the Company could face disallowance of previously billed costs, penalties, fines, compensatory damages and suspension or debarment from doing business with governmental agencies. Due to the Company’s reliance on government contracts, adverse findings could also have a material impact on the Company’s business, including its financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Company has recorded reserves for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments for indirect cost audits and compliance with Cost Accounting Standards, which include indemnification obligations owing to former Parent for periods prior to the Distribution Date. As of November 2, 2018, the Company has recorded a total liability of $43 million for estimated net amounts to be refunded to customers for potential adjustments from audits of contract costs, which is presented in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets. Any additional amounts which may be determined to be owed for periods prior to the separation will be allocated to former Parent and the Company in proportions determined in accordance with the Distribution Agreement.
Letters of Credit and Surety Bonds
The Company has outstanding obligations relating to letters of credit of $12 million as of November 2, 2018, principally related to guarantees on insurance policies. The Company also has outstanding obligations relating to surety bonds in the amount of $18 million, principally related to performance and payment bonds on the Company’s contracts. The majority of the surety bonds outstanding were initially obtained by former Parent and the Company is required to satisfy these obligations under the terms of the Distribution Agreement.
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
Item 1A. Risk Factors
•the inability to obtain consents from third parties who have “change of control” or similar clauses in their agreements with Engility;
•the failure to consummate the merger may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community;
•required regulatory approvals from governmental entities may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could cause the abandonment of the merger; and
•the inability to successfully combine our business with Engility in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the full revenue and cost synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the merger;
•the loss of customers and strategic partners who may not wish to continue their relationships with the combined company;
•complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other business partners; and
•market assessments of the likelihood that the merger will be completed; and 
We and Engility will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the Merger. 
