We use the terms "SAIC," the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to Science Applications International Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We are a leading technology integrator providing full life-cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets. We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 45 years. As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity. Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government. We serve our customers through approximately 1,300 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 15,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders. Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve. Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.
Pending Acquisition of Engility
On September 9, 2018, we entered into the Merger Agreement by and among SAIC, Engility Holdings, Inc. ("Engility"), and Raptors Merger Sub, Inc., pursuant to which we will acquire Engility (the “Merger”). At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of Engility common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.450 shares of SAIC common stock. The Company amended its credit agreement to provide for a new five-year senior secured $1.1 billion term loan facility to be funded in connection with the Merger, see Note 7 to the Condensed and Consolidated Financial Statements. The proceeds will be used to repay Engility's existing credit facility and outstanding notes. The estimated transaction value is $2.1 billion based on the Company's per share closing price of $69.39 on November 2, 2018 including the repayment of Engility's net debt. The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by both companies' Board of Directors. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval of both the Science Applications International Corporation and Engility stockholders, and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In fiscal 2018, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform. Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government. An omnibus appropriations measure increased discretionary federal spending by $143 billion above previous spending caps for government fiscal year (GFY) 2018, providing additional business opportunities for the Company. A budget agreement passed in February would extend and increase those spending levels for GFY 2019. But beyond that two-year window, there remains uncertainty on whether, and by how much, discretionary spending will be increased above the budget caps put in place in August 2011. Without additional action, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
Despite the budget and competitive pressures impacting the industry, we believe we are well positioned to protect and expand existing customer relationships and benefit from opportunities that we have not previously pursued. Our scale, size and prime contractor leadership position are expected to help differentiate us from our competitors, especially on large contracts. We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex mission-critical contracts. SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers. In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
We succeed as a business based on the solutions we deliver, our past performance and our ability to compete on price. Our solutions, inspired through innovation, are based on best practices and technology transfer. Our past performance was achieved by employee dedication and customer focus. Our current cost structure, as well as our ongoing efforts to reduce costs by strategic sourcing and developing repeatable offerings, is expected to allow us to compete effectively on price in an evolving environment. Our ability to be competitive in the future will continue to be driven by our reputation of successful program execution, competitive cost structure and efficiencies in assigning the right people, at the right time, in support of our contracts.
Restructuring
During fiscal 2018, the Company initiated restructuring activities (the "Restructuring") intended to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, and better position the Company to drive future growth. Management's restructuring activities included involuntary and voluntary terminations and the consolidation of existing leased facilities. Management completed the Restructuring in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. Total restructuring costs of approximately $13 million were incurred and recognized, comprised of $6 million in severance expense and $7 million in lease exit costs, which included $1 million in accelerated depreciation expense. Refer to "Results of Operations" below, and "Restructuring" in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
Management of Operating Performance and Reporting
•low single digit annual revenue growth percentage,
•adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 10 to 20 basis points annually, and
•return of capital in excess of operating needs.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure described in more detail in “Non-GAAP Measures” below.
Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements. These managers carefully monitor performance by constantly evaluating risks and opportunities. Through each program life cycle, managers review performance and update estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available. For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Results of Operations
Revenues. Revenues increased $32 million or 2.8% for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to newly awarded contracts ($54 million), which includes information technology (IT) integration contracts supporting state and local customers, and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($24 million). These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts and other net decreases across our portfolio ($46 million).
Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues increased $12 million for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.5% in the prior year quarter to 89.0%, driven by improved performance across our portfolio ($28 million), inclusive of newly awarded contracts, and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($14 million). These improvements were partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision ($25 million).
Cost of revenues increased $103 million for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.9% in the prior year period to 90.1%, driven by improved contract performance to include the effect of our restructuring efforts in fiscal 2018 ($35 million), and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($15 million). These improvements were partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision ($25 million).
Operating Income. Operating income as a percentage of revenues of 6.2% for the three months ended November 2, 2018 was consistent with 6.3% in the comparable prior year period, due to improved performance across our portfolio, higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time, offset by an increase in our inventory provision and costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Engility ($14 million). 
Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 6.1% for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 from 5.8% in the comparable prior year period primarily due to improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018, partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision and costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Engility ($14 million).
Net Income. Net income for the three months ended November 2, 2018 increased $5 million as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by expenses associated with the debt refinancing activities in the current quarter.
Net income for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 increased $18 million as compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher operating income and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by expenses associated with the debt refinancing activities in the current year.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $162 million for the nine months ended November 2, 2018, an increase of $29 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher customer collections and lower payments for income taxes, which was partially offset by an increase in working capital investments in platform integration programs.
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is calculated by taking net income and excluding interest, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by taking EBITDA and excluding restructuring and acquisition and integration costs that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance. The acquisition and integration costs relate to the Company's pending significant acquisition of Engility. The restructuring costs relate to the Company's plan in fiscal 2018 to restructure certain aspects of its operations and is the only significant restructuring since we began operating as an independent company five years ago.
Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended November 2, 2018 increased to 8.3% of revenues from 7.4% of revenues for the prior year driven by improved performance across our portfolio and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time, partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision.
Adjusted EBITDA for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 increased to 7.4% of revenues from 6.9% of revenues for the prior year, driven by improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018, and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time, partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision.
Net Bookings and Backlog. Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and negotiated unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of adjustments to estimates on previously awarded contracts. We calculate net bookings as the period’s ending backlog plus the period’s revenues less the prior period’s ending backlog and initial backlog obtained through acquisitions.
•Funded Backlog. Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years. Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
•Negotiated Unfunded Backlog. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.
We had net bookings worth an estimated $1.2 billion and $3.7 billion during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018, respectively. Total backlog at the end of the third quarter is consistent with our total backlog at prior year end.
Our contract mix for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 reflects an increase in cost reimbursement type contracts due to newly awarded contracts supporting federal civilian agencies and a change in contract type on a significant contract supporting the Department of Defense.
Cost of revenues mix for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018 reflects an increase in supply chain material content.
As a services provider, our business generally requires minimal infrastructure investment. We expect to fund our ongoing working capital, commitments and any other discretionary investments with cash on hand, future operating cash flows and, if needed, borrowings under our $200 million Revolving Credit Facility.
We anticipate that our future cash needs will be for working capital, capital expenditures, and contractual and other commitments. We consider various financial measures when we develop and update our capital deployment strategy, which includes evaluating cash provided by operating activities, free cash flow and financial leverage. When our cash generation enables us to exceed our target average minimum cash balance of $150 million, we intend to deploy excess cash through dividends, share repurchases, debt prepayments or strategic acquisitions.
In connection with the Merger Agreement, we expect to assume approximately $900 million of Engility's debt. The Company amended its credit agreement to provide for a new five-year senior secured $1.1 billion term loan facility to be funded in connection with the Merger, see Note 7 to the Condensed and Consolidated Financial Statements. The proceeds will be used to repay Engility's existing credit facility and outstanding notes. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility will increase by an additional $200 million upon effectiveness of the Merger.
Historical Cash Flow Trends
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Refer to “Results of Operations” above for a discussion of the changes in cash provided by operating activities between the nine months ended November 2, 2018 and the comparable prior year period.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities. Cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 decreased compared to the prior year period primarily due to an increase in proceeds from borrowings and a decrease in stock repurchased and retired or withheld for taxes on equity awards, partially offset by an increase in principal payments on borrowings and debt issuance costs.
We previously entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of our Assault Amphibious Vehicle (AAV) contract with the United States Marine Corps. Beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that would be necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of the program, including portions of the LRIP phase which had not yet been awarded. 
On August 27, 2018, we received a stop-work order from the Marine Corps on the AAV contract and on October 3, 2018 we received a termination for convenience. 
Beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that would be necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of the program, including portions of the LRIP phase which had not yet been awarded. As a result of the program termination, the Company recognized an inventory provision for long-lead items, see Note 1 of the Notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements.
Other than this update, there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as reported in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We provide for anticipated losses on long-term production type contracts and service contracts with the U.S. government by recording an expense for the total expected contract loss during the period when the loss is determined. Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts (including allocated indirect costs) are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations with government representatives. Revenues on U.S. government contracts have been recorded in amounts that are expected to be realized on final settlement.
Other than the item described above, there have been no changes to our existing critical accounting policies during the nine months ended November 2, 2018 from those disclosed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
For information on recently issued but not yet adopted accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
