Item 1. Legal Proceedings
We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Even if the Engility merger is consummated, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of Engility with our own or realize the anticipated benefits of the merger in the expected time frame, or at all.
•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger.
The exchange ratio will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either the Company or Engility stock price.
The price of SAIC common shares at the closing of the merger may vary from the price on the date the Merger Agreement was executed and the dates of the respective special meetings of our stockholders and Engility’s stockholders. As a result, the market value of the merger consideration may also vary. 
We and Engility will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the Merger. 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Purchases of Equity Securities. We may repurchase shares on the open market in accordance with established repurchase plans. Whether repurchases are made and the timing and amount of repurchases depend on a variety of factors including market conditions, our capital position, internal cash generation and other factors. We also repurchase shares in connection with stock option and stock award activities to satisfy tax withholding obligations.
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Item 5. Other Information
Item 6. Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Charles A. Mathis
