We use the terms "SAIC," the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to Science Applications International Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We are a leading technology integrator providing full life-cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets. We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 45 years. As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity. Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government. We serve our customers through approximately 1,300 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 15,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders. Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve. Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.
In fiscal 2018, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform. Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government. A recently-passed omnibus appropriations measure increased discretionary federal spending by $143 billion above previous spending caps for government fiscal year (GFY) 2018, providing additional business opportunities for the Company. A budget agreement passed in February would extend and increase those spending levels for GFY 2019. But beyond that two-year window, there remains uncertainty on whether, and by how much, discretionary spending will be increased above the budget caps put in place in August 2011. Without additional action, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules and other multi-award contracts) which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
Despite the budget and competitive pressures impacting the industry, we believe we are well positioned to protect and expand existing customer relationships and benefit from opportunities that we have not previously pursued. Our scale, size and prime contractor leadership position are expected to help differentiate us from our competitors, especially on large contracts. We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex mission-critical contracts. SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers. In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
We succeed as a business based on the solutions we deliver, our past performance and our ability to compete on price. Our solutions, inspired through innovation, are based on best practices and technology transfer. Our past performance was achieved by employee dedication and customer focus. Our current cost structure, as well as our ongoing efforts to reduce costs by strategic sourcing and developing repeatable offerings, is expected to allow us to compete effectively on price in an evolving environment. Our ability to be competitive in the future will continue to be driven by our reputation of successful program execution, competitive cost structure and efficiencies in assigning the right people, at the right time, in support of our contracts.
Management of Operating Performance and Reporting
•low single digit annual revenue growth percentage,
•EBITDA margin expansion of 10 to 20 basis points annually, and
•return of capital in excess of operating needs.
EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure described in more detail in “Non-GAAP Measure” below.
Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements. These managers carefully monitor performance by constantly evaluating risks and opportunities. Through each program life cycle, managers review performance and update estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available. For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
Results of Operations
Revenues. Revenues increased $72 million or 6.5% for the three months ended May 4, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ($47 million) and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($64 million). These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts and other net decreases across our portfolio ($39 million).
Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues increased $67 million for the three months ended May 4, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased from 91.3% in the prior year quarter to 91.4%, driven by higher supply chain material content. 
Operating Income. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 5.6% for the three months ended May 4, 2018 from 5.7% in the comparable prior year period, driven by higher supply chain material content which generate lower operating margins. Operating margins were also impacted by net unfavorable changes in estimates on contracts in both the current quarter and the prior year quarter driven primarily by increased costs on platform integration programs.
Net Income. Net income for the three months ended May 4, 2018 remained consistent as compared to the same period in the prior year. Higher operating income was offset by a lower tax deduction from stock-based compensation in the current quarter.
EBITDA. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is calculated by taking net income and excluding interest, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. While we believe that this non-GAAP financial measure may be useful in evaluating our financial information, it should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Other companies may define similar measures differently.
Other Key Performance Measures
Net Bookings and Backlog. Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and negotiated unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of adjustments to estimates on previously awarded contracts. We calculate net bookings as the period’s ending backlog plus the period’s revenues less the prior period’s ending backlog and initial backlog obtained through acquisitions.
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts. Given that much of our revenue is derived from IDIQ contract task orders that renew annually, bookings on these contracts tend to refresh annually as the task orders are renewed. Additionally, we do not include in backlog contract awards that are under protest until the protest is resolved in our favor.
•Funded Backlog. Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years. Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
•Negotiated Unfunded Backlog. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.
We had net bookings worth an estimated $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion during the three months ended May 4, 2018 and May 5, 2017, respectively. Total backlog at the end of the first quarter is consistent with our total backlog at prior year end.
Our contract mix was relatively consistent for the three months ended May 4, 2018 compared to the prior year comparable period.
Cost of revenues mix for the three months ended May 4, 2018 reflects an increase in supply chain material content.
As a services provider, our business generally requires minimal infrastructure investment. We expect to fund our ongoing working capital, commitments and any other discretionary investments with cash on hand, future operating cash flows and, if needed, borrowings under our $200 million Revolving Credit Facility.
We anticipate that our future cash needs will be for working capital, capital expenditures, and contractual and other commitments. We consider various financial measures when we develop and update our capital deployment strategy, which includes evaluating cash provided by operating activities, free cash flow and financial leverage. When our cash generation enables us to exceed our target average minimum cash balance of $150 million, we intend to deploy excess cash through dividends, share repurchases, debt prepayments or strategic acquisitions.
Our ability to fund these needs will depend, in part, on our ability to generate cash in the future, which depends on our future financial results. Our future results are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors that may be outside of our direct control. Although we believe that the financing arrangements in place will permit us to finance our operations on acceptable terms and conditions for at least the next year, our future access to, and the availability of financing on acceptable terms and conditions will be impacted by many factors (including our credit rating, capital market liquidity and overall economic conditions). Therefore, we cannot ensure that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or that such financing will be available at all. Nevertheless, we believe that our existing cash on hand, generation of future operating cash flows, and access to bank financing and capital markets will provide adequate resources to meet our short-term liquidity and long-term capital needs.
Historical Cash Flow Trends
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Refer to “Results of Operations” above for a discussion of the changes in cash provided by operating activities between the three months ended May 4, 2018 and the comparable prior year period.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended May 4, 2018 increased compared to the prior year period due to higher capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended May 4, 2018 decreased compared to the prior year period primarily due to a decrease in stock repurchased and retired or withheld for taxes on equity awards.
Other than this update, there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as reported in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We provide for anticipated losses on long-term production type contracts and service contracts with the U.S. government by recording an expense for the total expected contract loss during the period when the loss is determined. Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts (including allocated indirect costs) are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations with government representatives. Revenues on U.S. government contracts have been recorded in amounts that are expected to be realized on final settlement.
Other than the item described above, there have been no changes to our existing critical accounting policies during the three months ended May 4, 2018 from those disclosed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
For information on recently issued but not yet adopted accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
