fls.txt



item1.txt
The reporting change had no impact to previously reported segment net revenue, consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net EPS.
1.Identify the contract with a customer - A contract with customer exists when (i) it is approved and signed by all parties, (ii) each party’s rights and obligations can be identified, (iii) payment terms are defined, (iv) it has commercial substance and (v) the customer has the ability and intent to pay.
On January 19, 2015, the U.K. Serious Fraud Office notified HP that it was closing its investigation and had decided to cede jurisdiction of the investigation to the U.S. authorities.
For example, non-original supplies (including imitation, refill or remanufactured alternatives) for some of our LaserJet toner and InkJet cartridges compete with our Printing Supplies business.
On August 27, 2015, the California Court of Appeals rejected Oracle’s appeal.
 On May 26, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors approved amending the Fiscal 2017 Plan.
The accompanying Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of HP and its wholly-owned subsidiaries are prepared in conformity with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
These amounted to $60 million and $36 million as of July 31, 2019 and October 31, 2018, respectively.
Prior to the issuance of the show cause notices, HP India deposited approximately $16 million with the DRI and agreed to post a provisional bond in exchange for the DRI’s agreement to not seize HP India products and spare parts and to not interrupt the transaction of business by HP India.
In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance, which addresses the improvement of the presentation of net periodic pension and net periodic post-retirement benefit cost.
Commitment fees, interest rates and other terms of borrowing under the credit facility vary based on HP’s external credit ratings.
Some European countries that do not yet have levies on digital devices are expected to implement similar legislation to enable them to extend existing levy schemes, while other European countries have phased out levies or are expected to limit the scope of levy schemes and applicability in the digital hardware environment, particularly with respect to sales to business users.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2019, HP recorded $1.1 billion of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
For interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, HP measures hedge effectiveness by offsetting the change in fair value of the hedged item with the change in fair value of the derivative.
HP excludes from the calculation of diluted net EPS stock options and restricted stock units where the assumed proceeds exceed the average market price, because their effect would be anti-dilutive.
HP enters into fair value hedges, such as interest rate swaps, to reduce the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)-based floating interest expense.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, HP recorded $7 million and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
HP recognizes any ineffective portion of the hedge in the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings in the same period in which ineffectiveness occurs.


item2.txt
Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to operating expense spend favorability.
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018, net cash used in investing activities decreased by $0.6 billion for the nine months ended July 31, 2019, primarily due to lower net payments for acquisitions.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 4.7% increase in unit volume, partially offset by a 1.5% decrease in average selling prices (“ASPs”), as compared to the prior-year period.
For more information on our restructuring activities that are part of our cost improvements, see Note 3, “Restructuring and Other Charges”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Net revenue for Supplies decreased 7.1% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to demand weakness.
We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, our cost of capital and targeted capital structure.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware decreased 10.1% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 10.1% decrease in printer unit volume.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Exhibits.


part2.txt
Item 1A.
Our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.
We operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance.


