fls.txt



item1.txt
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, HP recorded $4 million and $5 million, respectively, of net tax benefit related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
To further limit credit risk, HP has collateral security agreements that allow HP to hold collateral from, or require HP to post collateral to, counterparties when aggregate derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds which are generally based on the credit ratings of HP and its counterparties.
On August 27, 2015, the California Court of Appeals rejected Oracle’s appeal.
All highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition are considered cash equivalents.
HP’s stock-based compensation plans permit the issuance of restricted stock awards, stock options and performance-based awards.
HP’s effective tax rate was (1,162%) and 25.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and (203%) and 23.5% for the six months ended April 30, 2018 and April 30, 2017, respectively.
HP’s effective tax rate was (1,162%) and 25.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and (203%) and 23.5% for the six months ended April 30, 2018 and April 30, 2017, respectively.
After the order, HP India deposited an additional $3 million in connection with the parts-related show cause notice so as to avoid certain penalties.
The separation and distribution agreement includes provisions that provide for the allocation of environmental liabilities between HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise including certain remediation obligations; responsibilities arising from the chemical and materials composition of their respective products, their safe use and their energy consumption; obligations under product take back legislation that addresses the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products; and other environmental matters.
The Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements include the accounts of HP and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which HP has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary.
As of April 30, 2018 and April 30, 2017, no portion of the hedging instruments’ gain or loss was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for fair value and cash flow hedges.
HP uses total return swaps to hedge its executive deferred compensation plan liability.
HP expects that the appeals process could take several years to complete.
The Customs Tribunal did not order any additional deposit to be made under the parts order.
The guidance requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
Since HP has a fiscal year ending October 31, it is subject to transitional tax rate rules.
Ongoing key initiatives include design and deployment of A3 products and solutions for the copier and multifunction printer market, printer security solutions, PageWide solutions and award-winning JetIntelligence LaserJet products.
Since HP has a fiscal year ending October 31, it is subject to transitional tax rate rules.


item2.txt
The increase in DSO was primarily due to unfavorable revenue linearity.
Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.
U.S. net revenue increased 5.0% to $4.7 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 17.6% to $9.3 billion.
In December 2017, we also entered into an additional revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that provides us with $1.5 billion of available borrowings until November 30, 2018.
Funds borrowed under this revolving credit facility may also be used for general corporate purposes.
As we evaluate the impact of the TCJA and the future cash needs of our operations, we may revise the amount of foreign earnings considered to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries and how to utilize such funds, including reducing our gross debt level, returning capital to shareholders with a focus on incremental share repurchase or other uses.
These amounts included a tax benefit of $12 million and $31 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, respectively, related to restructuring charges.
We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed.
Additionally, we are investing in premium and mobility form factors such as convertible notebooks, detachable notebooks, and mobility devices in order to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Exhibit Index beginning on page 57 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.


part2.txt
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.


