fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
HP is continuing to cooperate with the ongoing enforcement actions.
HP is currently evaluating the timing and the impact of this guidance on the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
Autonomy Corporation Limited v. Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain.
The guidance requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
In the ordinary course of business, HP enters into contractual arrangements under which HP may agree to indemnify a third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of HP or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for example, litigation or claims relating to past performance.
This extinguishment of debt resulted in a loss of $126 million, which was recorded as "Interest and other, net" on the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings during the nine months ended July 31, 2018.
The amendments should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, with other amendments related specifically to equity securities without readily determinable fair values applied prospectively.
v. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise.
HP is required to adopt the guidance retrospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence Proceedings.
In connection with the Tender Offer, HP also solicited consents from holders of its 4.650% Notes due December 2021, (the “4.650% Notes”) to amend the indenture under which the 4.650% Notes were issued to, among other things, eliminate substantially all of the restrictive covenants of the indenture (the “Proposed Amendments”).
The net receivable as of July 31, 2018 was $953 million.
•Consumer PCs are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on multi-media consumption, online browsing, gaming and light productivity.
As of July 31, 2018, HP had accrued $149 million for interest and penalties.
HP initiated a restructuring plan in fiscal year 2012 (the “Fiscal 2012 Plan”), which includes severance and infrastructure costs.
HP accrues the estimated cost of product warranties at the time it recognizes revenue.
During the nine months ended July 31, 2018, HP remeasured its deferred taxes to reflect the reduced rate that will likely apply when these deferred taxes are settled or realized in future periods.


item2.txt
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, we recorded $27 million and $31 million, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes for continuing operations.
These tax benefits were offset by uncertain tax position charges of $56 million.
In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings.
DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding.
Net revenue for Supplies increased by 8.8% as compared to the prior-year period, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, net cash used in investing activities decreased by $0.9 billion for the nine months ended July 31, 2018, primarily due to a decrease in investments classified as available-for-sale investments within Other current assets by $1.2 billion and collateral related to our derivatives of $0.7 billion, partially offset by the payment of $1.0 billion for the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
The reporting change had no impact on previously reported consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net earnings per share.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 11.9% and 14.1% for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior-year periods, primarily driven by incremental go-to-market investments to support revenue growth, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The registrant agrees to furnish to the Commission supplementally upon request a copy of (1) any instrument with respect to long-term debt not filed herewith as to which the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and (2) any omitted schedules to any material plan of acquisition, disposition or reorganization set forth above.


part2.txt
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Experienced computer programmers and hackers, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns.


