fls.txt



item1.txt
For fixed price support or maintenance contracts that are in the nature of stand-ready obligations, payments are generally received in advance from customers and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over time for the duration of the contract.
For more information on the impacts of these agreements, see Note 6, “Supplementary Financial Information”, Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” and Note 13, “Guarantees, Indemnifications and Warranties”.
As of April 30, 2019, HP expects to reclassify an estimated accumulated other comprehensive gain of $141 million, net of taxes, to earnings within the next twelve months associated with cash flow hedges along with the earnings effects of the related forecasted transactions.
v. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise.
On October 10, 2016, HP’s Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the “Fiscal 2017 Plan”), which HP expected would be implemented through fiscal year 2019.
The adoption of this guidance has no impact on net earnings.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2019, HP recorded $40 million and $49 million, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
Described below are HP’s global business capabilities within Printing.
On October 10, 2016, HP’s Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the “Fiscal 2017 Plan”), which HP expected would be implemented through fiscal year 2019.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance, which amends the existing accounting standards for derivatives and hedging.
On October 10, 2016, HP’s Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the “Fiscal 2017 Plan”), which HP expected would be implemented through fiscal year 2019.
HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
Litigation is inherently unpredictable.
•Commercial PCs are optimized for use by customers, including enterprise, public sector and SMB customers, with a focus on robust designs, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked and cloud-based environments.
•fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments.
The organizational change resulted in the transfer of certain Samsung-branded product categories from Commercial to Consumer within the Printing segment.


item2.txt
Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount we expect to indefinitely invest outside the United States and the amounts we expect to distribute to the United States and provide the U.S. federal taxes due on amounts expected to be distributed to the United States.
We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.
Our effective tax rate was 11.4% and (1,162%) for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 11.1% and (203%) for the six months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities.
Our policy is to fund our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities.
Consequently, Commercial revenue increased 4.8% and Consumer revenue decreased 3.3% for the six months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to the prior-year period.
One set of challenges relates to dynamic market trends, such as forecasted declining PC Client markets and home printing markets.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
Beginning in 2018, the United States commenced certain trade actions, including imposing tariffs on certain goods imported from China and other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by China and other countries.
We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers.
Item 2.
Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors.
In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components.


