fls.txt



item1.txt
As of January 31, 2018, HP and its subsidiaries had available borrowing resources of $742 million from uncommitted lines of credit in addition to the commercial paper and revolving credit facilities discussed above.
HP recognizes all derivative instruments at fair value in the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
HP is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified retrospective approach.
The organizational change resulted in the transfer of long life consumables from Commercial to Supplies within the Printing segment.
On October 20, 2016, the court entered judgment for HP for this amount with interest accruing until the judgment is paid.
This credit contingent provision did not affect HP’s financial position or cash flows as of January 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017.
Personal Systems groups its global business capabilities into Notebooks, Desktops, Workstations and Other when reporting business performance.
The recourse obligations as of January 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017 were not material.
However, HP believes it has valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against it.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance, which requires credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, not based on incurred losses.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, HP initially records changes in fair value for the effective portion of the derivative instrument in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ deficit on the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings.
In the ordinary course of business, HP enters into contractual arrangements under which HP may agree to indemnify a third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of HP or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for example, litigation or claims relating to past performance.
HP expects the U.S. federal statutory rate to be 21% for fiscal years beginning after October 31, 2018.
As these transfers qualify as true sales under the applicable accounting guidance, the receivables are derecognized from the Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets upon transfer, and HP receives a payment for the receivables from the third party within a mutually agreed upon time period.
On March 20, 2017, the defendants filed additional motions to compel arbitration as to a number of the opt-in plaintiffs.
Master netting agreements mitigate credit exposure to counterparties by permitting HP to net amounts due from HP to counterparty against amounts due to HP from the same counterparty under certain conditions.
In general, HP would be obligated to perform over the term of the guarantee in the event a specified triggering event occurs as defined by the guarantee.


item2.txt
Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.
The increase in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit increases in Consumer and Commercial Hardware, including the Samsung-branded printers.
We are able to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions.
 Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2018, HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
In addition, we need to continue to improve our operations, with a particular focus on enhancing our end-to-end processes and efficiencies.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, our gross margin increased 0.1 percentage points, as compared to the prior-year period, primarily driven by improved rate in Printing due to productivity improvements, partially offset by higher commodity costs in Personal Systems.
The increase in ASPs was primarily driven by better discount management, mix shift to higher-end printers and favorable foreign currency impacts.
Amounts held outside of the United States are generally utilized to support non-U.S. liquidity needs, although a portion of those amounts may from time to time be subject to short-term intercompany loans into the United States.


item3.txt



item4.txt
† Furnished herewith.


part2.txt
employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically.
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.


