fls.txt



item1.txt
Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2019, HP implemented an organizational change to align its business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
Further, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities should be recorded through an allowance for credit losses limited to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost.
In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance, which addresses the improvement of the presentation of net periodic pension and net periodic post-retirement benefit cost.
HP expects to continue to obtain information to assist it in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired at the acquisition date during the measurement period.
On April 17, 2015, four former-HP subsidiaries that became subsidiaries of Hewlett Packard Enterprise at the time of the Separation (Autonomy Corporation Limited, Hewlett Packard Vision BV, Autonomy Systems, Limited, and Autonomy, Inc.) initiated civil proceedings in the U.K. High Court of Justice against two members of Autonomy’s former management, Michael Lynch and Sushovan Hussain.
During fiscal year 2019, HP anticipates making contributions of approximately $46 million to its non-U.S. pension plans, approximately $32 million to its U.S. non-qualified plan participants and approximately $6 million to cover benefit claims under HP’s post-retirement benefit plans.
•Graphics Solutions delivers large-format, commercial and industrial solutions to print service providers and packaging converters through a wide portfolio of printers and presses (HP DesignJet, HP Latex, HP Scitex, HP Indigo and HP PageWide Web Presses).
•Consumer PCs are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on gaming, consuming multi-media for entertainment, personal life activities, staying connected, sharing information, getting things done for work including creating content, staying informed and security.
HP is continuing to cooperate with the ongoing enforcement actions.
HP does not allocate certain operating expenses, which it manages at the corporate level, to its segments.
HP is also conducting environmental investigations or remediations at several current or former operating sites pursuant to administrative orders or consent agreements with state environmental agencies.
 As of January 31, 2019 and 2018, no portion of the hedging instruments’ gain or loss was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for fair value and cash flow hedges.
Historically, payments made related to these indemnifications have been immaterial.
Interest rates shown in the table of long-term debt have not been adjusted to reflect the impact of any interest rate swaps.
1.Identify the contract with a customer - A contract with customer exists when (i) it is approved and signed by all parties, (ii) each party’s rights and obligations can be identified, (iii) payment terms are defined, (iv) it has commercial substance and (v) the customer has the ability and intent to pay.
Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners.
On July 23, 2018, the plaintiffs refiled the case in the Northern District of Georgia.


item2.txt
We are able to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions.
We enter into contracts to sell our products and services, and while many of our sales contracts contain standard terms and conditions, there are contracts which contain non-standard terms and conditions.
This may change the pattern and timing of revenue recognition for identical arrangements executed in future periods but will not change the total revenue recognized for any given arrangement.
However, the aforementioned factors may result in a different SSP determination applying management judgments and estimates.
A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment net revenue is included in “Segment Information” below.
The increase in ASPs was due to positive mix shifts and higher pricing, partially offset by unfavorable currency impacts.
DOS measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product.
We evaluate customers’ ability to pay based on various factors like historical payment experience, financial metrics and customer credit scores.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Following HP’s discovery of these transactions and at HP’s direction, Apogee terminated the contract with Bank Saderat plc.


part2.txt
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
As of January 31, 2019, HP had approximately $3.2 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.


