item1.txt
The Company's significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers.
We adopted the guidance under the new revenue standards effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach by recognizing the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard as an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings.
In connection with the modified retrospective application of the new revenue standards, we recorded an adjustment to increase retained earnings of $3.4 million upon the January 1, 2018 adoption date.
Apart from this adjustment and the inclusion of additional required disclosures in Note 2, the adoption of the new revenue standards did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
We are currently assessing the impact that the new standard will have on our consolidated financial statements, which will consist primarily of recording right-of-use assets and lease liabilities related to our operating leases on our consolidated balance sheet.
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2018.
The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in accounting principle that will more closely align revenue recognition with the transfer of control of the Company's goods and services and provides financial statement readers with enhanced disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these goods and services.
The Company also provides incremental services to our customers in the form of training, technical support, special tooling, and other support as deemed necessary from time to time.
Warranties vary by product line and are competitive for the markets in which the Company operates.
Warranties generally extend for one to three years from the date of sale, providing customers with assurance that the related product will function as intended.
The Company reviews its warranty liability quarterly based on an analysis of actual expenses and failure rates accompanied with estimated future costs and projected failure rate trends.
We estimate product returns, including product exchanges under warranty, based on historical experience.


item2.txt
·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $33.8 million, or 9.1%, in the first nine months of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $5.1 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture.
·   Backlog – Our backlog reached $185.1 million at September 30, 2018, representing an increase of $38.6 million, or 26%, from December 31, 2017.
Since year-end, we saw a 65% increase at Magnetic Solutions, driven by a strong position with our integrated connector modules in next-generation switching products.
The backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products increased by 21%, driven by recent awards on key military programs, and heightened structured cabling demand for our passive connectors.
·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first nine months of 2018 increased from 10.4% of sales during the first nine months of 2017 to 11.5% of sales during the first nine months of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, particularly during the first half of 2018, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products.
The growth in North America sales in 2018 was largely due to increased demand for our passive connector products from our premise wiring customers, strength in our connectivity products within key military programs, and higher sales of our transformer products into medical applications.
Sales of our Power Solutions products have also increased in 2018 with heightened demand for our power supplies for use in various datacenter applications.
The increases in Asia sales noted above for the 2018 periods primarily relate to higher sales of our integrated connector modules for next-generation switching platforms.
Sales in Europe increased in both 2018 periods presented as a result of higher demand for our Stewart and Cinch connector products in that region, coupled with strong sales of our power products into rail applications.
There was also a favorable impact on our European sales in general during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 as a portion of those sales are invoiced in Euros or Pounds, which had appreciated against the U.S. Dollar particularly during the first half of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017.
Net sales and income from operations by operating segment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows.
The improvement in income from operations within our North America segment was largely due to higher sales volumes in the 2018 periods, partially offset by increased material costs on purchased components.


part2.txt
Pursuant to the Bel Fuse Inc. Employees' Savings Plan (the "Employees' Savings Plan"), the Company makes matching contributions of pre-tax elective deferral contributions made by associates.
The Employees' Savings Plan provides for matching contributions to be invested in shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock.


