fls.txt
Forward-Looking Statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements.


item1.txt
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company's significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers.
Apart from this adjustment and the inclusion of additional required disclosures in Note 2, the adoption of the new revenue standards did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these goods and services.
Products within the Company's magnetic solutions group are primarily used in networking and industrial applications.
The Company also provides incremental services to our customers in the form of training, technical support, special tooling, and other support as deemed necessary from time to time.
Warranties generally extend for one to three years from the date of sale, providing customers with assurance that the related product will function as intended.
In general, the Company is not contractually obligated to accept returns except for defective product or in instances where the product does not meet the Company's product specifications.
However, the Company may permit its customers to return product for other reasons.
In certain instances, the Company would generally require a significant cancellation penalty payment by the customer.
The Company estimates such returns, where applicable, based upon management's evaluation of historical experience, market acceptance of products produced and known negotiations with customers.
Payment for products sold under consignment contracts is typically due within 60 days of the customer pulling the product from the hub.
However, the "ship and debit" arrangements with distributors, royalty income associated with our licensing agreements, and the product returns described above are each deemed to be variable consideration which requires the Company to make constrained estimates based on historical data.


item2.txt
·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $13.7 million (or 5.6%) in the first half of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $3.7 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture.
·   Backlog – Our backlog reached $176.9 million at June 30, 2018, representing an increase of $30.3 million, or 21%, from December 31, 2017.
As a result, the Company's material costs as a percentage of sales increased to 41.4% during the first half of 2018 from 40.4% during the first half of 2017.
·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first half of 2018 increased from 10.2% of sales during the first half of 2017 to 11.4% of sales during the first half of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products.
·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first half of 2018, the Company incurred foreign exchange transactional gains of $0.9 million and higher labor and overhead costs of $3.2 million related to unfavorable fluctuations in exchange rates versus the first half of 2017.
The Company was unfavorably impacted by transactional foreign exchange losses during the first half of 2018 due to the appreciation of the Euro, Pound, and Renminbi against the U.S. dollar as compared to exchange rates in effect during the first half of 2017.
As a result, the U.S. Dollar equivalent costs of these operations were $3.2 million higher in the first half of 2018.
Additionally, on July 6, 2018, the U.S. Trade Representative implemented increased duty percentages across several hundred Harmonized Tariff Codes that cover several thousand products imported from the PRC into the U.S. by Bel. In the event that any additional tariff proposals are put into effect later in 2018, we would expect to implement similar measures to preserve our gross margins.
The growth in North America sales in 2018 was largely due to increased demand for our passive connector products in structured cabling applications, strength in our connectivity products within key military programs, and higher sales of our transformer products into medical applications.
In addition, sales with our Power Solutions business rebounded in 2018 largely due to increased demand for our power supplies in various datacenter applications.
The decrease in Asia sales noted above for the second quarter primarily relates to reduced demand for custom module products, which was offset in part by higher sales of our integrated connector modules during the second quarter of 2018.


item3.txt
In comparing average exchange rates during the second quarter of 2018 versus those during the second quarter of 2017, the Euro appreciated by 8%, the Pound appreciated by 6%, and the Renminbi appreciated by 7% against the U.S. Dollar.


part2.txt
The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 12 of the Company's Financial Statements, under "Legal Proceedings", as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


