The $7.2 million of deferred revenue recorded during the period ended March 31, 2018 is primarily the annual renewals of certain software subscriptions billed during the first quarter of each year. The deferred revenue recognized as revenue during the period ending March 31, 2018 is primarily the periodic recognition of annual renewals that have been deferred until earned. 
These reclassification had no effect on previously reported total sales revenues, operating income, income before taxes or net income. 
Effective January 1, 2018, our interface services team, which provides the design, development, implementation, and support services for all interfaces for data exchange from the CPSI applications, was previously considered a part of our product development division and has been integrated with our acute care client service team. This transition will work to create a consistent, personal, and convenient service experience for our clients characterized by transparent communication with prompt resolution. With this change, the payroll and related costs of this group of employees that were formerly included within the caption "Product development" on our condensed consolidated statements of income are now included within the caption "System sales and support - Cost of sales."
•Hardware revenue is recognized separately from software licenses at the point in time it is delivered to the client. The SSP of hardware is cost plus a reasonable margin. Payment is generally due upon delivery of the hardware to the client. Standard manufacturer warranties apply for hardware.
In total, the adoption of ASU 2014-09 resulted in a net increase in retained earnings of $2.0 million as of the date of adoption. 
•Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin. Payment is due monthly for subscriptions to third party content.
The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, and training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals. 
The Company’s financing receivables are comprised of a single portfolio segment, as the balances are all derived from short-term payment plan arrangements and long-term financing arrangements within our target market of community hospitals. The Company evaluates the credit quality of its financing receivables based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, customer collection experience, economic conditions, the customer’s financial condition, and known risk characteristics impacting the respective customer base of community hospitals, the most notable of which relate to enacted and potential changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates as community hospitals typically generate a significant portion of their revenues and related cash flows from beneficiaries of these programs. In addition to specific account identification, the Company utilizes historical collection experience to establish the allowance for credit losses. Financing receivables are written off only after the Company has exhausted all collection efforts. The Company has been successful in collecting its financing receivables and considers the credit quality of such arrangements to be good.Costs of Sales. Total costs of sales increased by 1%, or $0.4 million, from the first quarter of 2017. As a percentage of total revenues, costs of sales decreased to 45% in the first quarter of 2018 from 49% in the first quarter of 2017. 
 Total Operating Expenses. As a percentage of total revenues, total operating expenses decreased to 44% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 46% in the first quarter of 2017. 
Revenues. Total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased 10.6%, or $6.8 million, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we generated revenues of $70.9 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $64.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2017, an increase of 11% that is primarily attributed to TruBridge client growth and meaningful use stage three ("MU3") implementations. We view sales of TruBridge solutions within our existing EHR client base as our leading performance indicator. Our net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $3.7 million from the first three months of 2017 as a result of revenue growth accompanied with improved gross margins of 55%, a 4% increase from the first three months of 2017. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $6.6 million to $3.1 million provided from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to a reduction of short-term liabilities and other changes in working capital.
resulted in the gross margin on Acute Care EHR system sales and support increasing to 58% in the first quarter of 2018 from 53% in the first quarter of 2017. 
Net Income. Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased by $3.7 million to a net income of $4.0 million, or $0.29 per basic and diluted share, compared with net income of $0.2 million, or $0.02 per basic and diluted share, for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Net income represented 6% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to less than 1% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Net cash used in investing activities increased to $0.1 million in the first three months of 2018 compared to none during the first three months of 2017. We do not anticipate the need for significant capital expenditures during the remainder of 2018. None.Item 1.Legal Proceedings.
None.