This reclassification had no effect on previously reported total sales revenues, operating income, income before taxes or net income. 
Effective January 1, 2018, our interface services team, which provides the design, development, implementation, and support services for all interfaces for data exchange from the CPSI applications and was previously considered a part of our product development division, has been integrated with our acute care client service team. This transition has worked to create a consistent, personal, and convenient service experience for our clients characterized by transparent communication with prompt resolution. With this change, the payroll and related costs of this group of employees that were formerly included within the caption "Product development" on our condensed consolidated statements of income are now included within the caption "System sales and support - Cost of sales."
• Hardware revenue is recognized separately from software licenses at the point in time it is delivered to the client. The SSP of hardware is cost plus a reasonable margin. Payment is generally due upon delivery of the hardware to the client. Standard manufacturer warranties apply to hardware.
In total, the adoption of ASU 2014-09 resulted in a net increase in retained earnings of $2.0 million as of the date of adoption. 
• Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin. Payment is due monthly for subscriptions to third party content.
The Company’s financing receivables are comprised of a single portfolio segment, as the balances are all derived from short-term payment plan arrangements and long-term financing arrangements within our target market of community hospitals. The Company evaluates the credit quality of its financing receivables based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, customer collection experience, economic conditions, the customer’s financial condition, and known risk characteristics impacting the respective customer base of community hospitals, the most notable of which relate to enacted and potential changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates as community hospitals typically generate a significant portion of their revenues and related cash flows from beneficiaries of these programs. In addition to specific account identification, the Company utilizes historical collection experience to establish the allowance for credit losses. Financing receivables are written off only after the Company has exhausted all collection efforts. 
The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals. Costs of Sales. Total costs of sales increased by 1%, or $0.4 million, compared to the third quarter 2017. As a percentage of total revenues, costs of sales decreased to 48% in the third quarter 2018, compared to 49% in the third quarter 2017. 
Total Operating Expenses. As a percentage of total revenues, total operating expenses increased to 46% in the nine months ended 2018, compared to 45% in the nine months ended 2017. 
 Total Operating Expenses. As a percentage of total revenues, total operating expenses increased to 44% in the third quarter 2018, compared to 43% in the third quarter 2017. 
Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses decreased 12%, or $1.0 million, compared to the third quarter 2017, primarily due to decreased payroll costs of 8%, or $0.3 million, and decreased commission costs of $0.8 million, or 26%. The decreased commission costs were primarily the result of the aforementioned decrease in new EHR installations and TruBridge bookings realized during the third quarter 2018 compared to the third quarter 2017.
Costs of Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support decreased by $0.3 million, or 15%, compared to the third quarter 2017, primarily due to reduced payroll costs of $0.2 million, or 20%, as the realization of HHI integration synergies over the trailing twelve months has resulted in reduced headcount. Hardware costs also decreased by $0.1 million, which is consistent with decreased hardware revenue. The gross margin on Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support increased to 73% in the third quarter 2018, compared to 69% in the third quarter 2017.
Costs of Sales. Total costs of sales increased by 2%, or $2.2 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017. As a percentage of total revenues, costs of sales decreased to 47% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 48% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017. 
 TruBridge revenues increased 9%, or $2.1 million, compared to the third quarter 2017. Our hospital clients operate in an environment typified by rising costs and increased complexity and are increasingly seeking to alleviate themselves of the ever-increasing administrative burden of operating their own business office functions. Most notably, an expanded customer base for our accounts receivable management services resulted in an increase of $2.1 million, or 32%, and for our medical coding services resulted in an increase of $0.4 million, or 25%, compared to the third quarter 2017. These increases were partially offset by a $0.4 million, or 43%, decrease in consulting services as consulting opportunities related to Thrive software add-on sales have decreased and medical coding initiatives have been completed.
Revenues. Total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased 3%, or $2.2 million, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. None.Item 1.Legal Proceedings.
None.