 Item 1. Financial Statements 



  SCIENTIFIC INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



  ASSETS 





  LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 





 See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 





  SCIENTIFIC INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) 





 See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 





  SCIENTIFIC INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (UNAUDITED) 





 See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 





  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (UNAUDITED) 









 SCIENTIFIC INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED) 





 See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 





  SCIENTIFIC INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



 NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





 The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and regulations for reporting on Form 10-Q. Accordingly, certain information and footnotes required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for complete financial statements are not included herein. The Company believes all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of these interim statements have been included and that they are of a normal and recurring nature. These interim statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. The results for the three months ended September 30, 2019, are not necessarily an indication of the results for the full fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. 



  1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 



  Principles of Consolidation 



 The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Scientific Industries, Inc., Altamira Instruments, Inc. (“Altamira”), a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary, and Scientific Bioprocessing, Inc. (“SBI”), a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary, and Scientific Packaging Industries, Inc., an inactive wholly-owned subsidiary (all collectively referred to as the “Company”). All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. 



  Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 



  In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, Leases, which replaces previous lease guidance in its entirety with ASC 842 and requires lessees to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for those arrangements classified as operating leases under previous guidance, with the exception of leases with a term of twelve months or less. The Company adopted ASU No. 2016-02 on July 1, 2019 using the additional transition method, which allows prior periods to be presented under previous lease accounting guidance. Refer to Note 8, "Leases", for related disclosures. 



  R  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 







 The Company records revenues in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as amended” (“ASC Topic 606”). In accordance with Topic 606, the Company accounts for a customer contract when both parties have approved the contract and are committed to perform their respective obligations, each party’s rights can be identified, payment terms can be identified, the contract has commercial substance, and it is probable that the Company will collect substantially all of the consideration to which it is entitled. Revenue is recognized when, or as, performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of a promised product or service to a customer. 



  Nature of Products and Services 





 The following table summarizes the Company’s disaggregation of revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. 







 Benchtop Laboratory Equipment sales are comprised primarily of standard benchtop laboratory equipment from its stock to laboratory equipment distributors, or to end users primarily via e-commerce. The sales cycle from time of receipt of order to shipment is very short varying from a day to a few weeks. Customers either pay by credit card (online sales) or net 30-90, depending on the customer. Once the item is shipped under the FOB terms specified in the order, which is primarily “FOB Factory”, other than a standard warranty, there are no other obligations to the customer. The standard warranty is typically comprised of one to two years of parts and labor and is deemed immaterial. 



 Catalyst Research Instrument sales are comprised primarily of large instruments which begin with a standard model and then are customized to a customer’s specifications. The sales cycle can be quite long, typically ranging from one to three months, from the time an order is received to the time the instrument is shipped to the customer. Payment terms vary from customer to customer and can include advance payments which are recorded as contract liabilities. Some contracts call for training and installation, which is considered ancillary and not a material part of the contract. Due to the size and nature of the instruments, the Company subjects the instruments to an extensive factory acceptance testing process prior to shipment to ensure that they are fully operational once they reach the customer’s site. Normally, the Company warrantees its instruments for a period of twelve months for parts and labor which normally consists of replacement of small components or software support. Catalyst research instruments are never returned for repairs. 



 Royalty revenues pertain to royalties earned by the Company, which are paid on a calendar year basis, under a licensing agreement from a single licensee and its sublicenses. The Company is then obligated to pay 50% of all royalties received to the entity that licenses the intellectual property to the Company. During the year, the Company’s management uses its best judgement to estimate the royalty revenues earned during the period. 









 3. Segment Information and Concentrations 













 Approximately 36% and 49% of net sales of Benchtop Laboratory Equipment for the three month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were derived from the Company’s main product, the Vortex-Genie 2 mixer, excluding accessories. 



Approximately 33% and 25% of total Benchtop Laboratory Equipment sales were derived from the Torbal Scales Division for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 



  For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, three customers accounted for approximately 23% (both periods) of net sales of the Benchtop Laboratory Equipment Operations (18% and 19% of the Company’s total revenues). Sales of Catalyst Research Instruments generally comprise a few very large orders averaging approximately $50,000 per order to a limited number of customers, who differ from order to order. Sales to two customers during the three months ended September 30, 2019 accounted for approximately 90% of the Catalyst Research Instruments Operations revenues and 6% of the Company’s total revenues. Sales to three customers during the three months ended September 30, 2018 accounted for approximately 83% of the Catalyst Research Instrument Operations’ revenues and 9% of the Company’s total revenues. 



  4. Fair Value of Financial Instruments 



 The FASB defines the fair value of financial instruments as the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value measurements do not include transaction costs. 





 Level 1 - Inputs that are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active markets. 



 Level 2 - Quoted prices in markets that are not considered to be active or financial instruments for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly. 



 Level 3 - Prices or valuation that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. 



 In valuing assets and liabilities, the Company is required to maximize the use of quoted market prices and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The Company calculated the fair value of its Level 1 and 2 instruments based on the exchange traded price of similar or identical instruments where available or based on other observable instruments. These calculations take into consideration the credit risk of both the Company and its counterparties. The Company has not changed its valuation techniques in measuring the fair value of any financial assets and liabilities during the period. 



 The fair value of the contingent consideration obligations are based on a probability weighted approach derived from the estimates of earn-out criteria and the probability assessment with respect to the likelihood of achieving those criteria. The measurement is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, therefore, the Company classifies this liability as Level 3 in the following tables. 























  6. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 



 Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired in connection with the Company’s acquisitions. Goodwill amounted to $705,300 at September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019, all of which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 









 Total amortization expense was $19,500 and $61,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of September 30, 2019, estimated future amortization expense related to intangible assets is $51,000 for the remainder of the fiscal year ending, June 30, 2020, $54,300 for fiscal 2021, $31,700 for fiscal 2022, $15,000 for fiscal 2023 and $10,900 for fiscal 2024. 



 7. Income (Loss) Per Common Share 







 Approximately 44,200 and 92,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, because the effect would be anti-dilutive. 







 On July 1, 2019 the Company adopted the new accounting pronouncement as it relates to its leases which requires a lessee to recognize all long-term leases on its balance sheet as a liability for its lease obligation, measured at the present value of lease payments not yet paid, and a corresponding asset representing its right to use the underlying asset over the lease term and expands disclosure of key information about leasing arrangements.  



  The Company leases certain properties consisting principally of a facility in Bohemia, New York (headquarters) through February 2025, a facility in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania for its Catalyst Research Instrument Operations through November 2020 and another facility in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania for its Bioprocessing Systems Operations through November 2020. In addition, the Company had a lease for its Torbal Division of the Benchtop Laboratory Equipment Operations which was mutually terminated early effective as of October 31, 2019 and a new lease for a similar sales and administration office was entered into as of November 1, 2019 through October 2022. There are no renewal options with any of the leases, no residual values or significant restrictions or covenants other than those customary in such arrangements, and no non-cash activities, and any rent escalations incorporated within the leases are included in the calculation of the future minimum lease payments, as further described below. All of the Company’s leases are deemed operating leases.  



  The Company determines whether an agreement contains a lease at inception based on the Company’s right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the identified asset and its right to direct the use of the identified asset. Lease liabilities represent the present value of future lease payments and the Right-Of-Use (“ROU”) assets represent the Company’s right to use the underlying assets for the respective lease terms. ROU assets and lease liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the present value of the lease payments over the lease term. The ROU asset is further adjusted to account for previously recorded lease expenses such as deferred rent and other lease liabilities. As the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company used its incremental borrowing rate of 5.0% as the discount rate to calculate the present value of future lease payments, which was the interest rate that its bank would charge for a similar loan. 



  The Company elected not to recognize a ROU asset and a lease liability for leases with an initial term of twelve months or less. In addition to minimum lease payments, certain leases require payment of a proportionate share of real estate taxes and certain building operating expenses or payments based on an excess of a specified base. These variable lease costs are not included in the measurement of the ROU asset or lease liability due to unpredictability of the payment amount and are recorded as lease expenses in the period incurred. The Company’s lease agreements do not contain residual value guarantees.  



  The Company elected available practical expedients for existing or expired contracts of lessees wherein the Company is not required to reassess whether such contracts contain leases, the lease classification or the initial direct costs. The Company is not utilizing the practical expedient which allows the use of hindsight by lessees and lessors in determining the lease term and in assessing impairment of its ROU assets. The Company utilized the transition method allowing entities to only apply the new lease standard in the year of adoption.  



  As of September 30, 2019, the weighted-average remaining lease term for operating lease liabilities was approximately 4 years and the weighted-average discount rate was 5.0%. Total cash payments under these leases were $68,400, of which $68,300 was recorded as leases expense. 











