item1.txt
We also elected to retrospectively apply the change in presentation of excess tax benefits recognized related to stock-based compensation expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows from financing activities to operating activities.
This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services.
Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.
Diluted loss per share was the same as basic loss per share for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, as there was a loss from continuing operations in the periods and inclusion of potentially issuable shares was anti-dilutive.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes.
During the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, the conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive due to a loss from continuing operations.
We expect to incur additional costs of between $70 million and $90 million in connection with the Fiscal 2017 Plan primarily consisting of severance and termination benefits and facilities exit costs.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 was based on the historic statutory tax rate of 35%.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences and tax expense related to the loss of tax attributes due to restructuring activities.
For the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit of $30 million and an income tax expense of $7 million on discontinued operations, respectively.
we recorded an income tax benefit of $85 million and an income tax expense of $49 million on discontinued operations, respectively.
The total aggregate consideration for these acquisitions, primarily consisting of cash, was $345 million, net of $15 million cash acquired.
The preliminary allocation of the aggregate purchase price for the two acquisitions described above was based upon preliminary valuations, and our estimates and assumptions are subject to refinement within the measurement period (up to one year from the close date).
During the nine months ended December 29, 2017, in addition to the acquisitions mentioned above, we completed acquisitions of other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $66 million, net of $1 million cash acquired.
The unaudited pro forma financial results combine the historical results of Symantec and Blue Coat for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 and include the effects of pro forma adjustments as if Blue Coat were acquired in the beginning of our 2016 fiscal year.
The pro forma results for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 include nonrecurring adjustments to amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation, commissions, interest on debt used to finance the acquisition, and acquisition-related transaction costs, as well as the income tax effect of the pro forma adjustments.
In connection with this acquisition, we recognized a liability of $68 million for a claim related to appraisal rights by a LifeLock stockholder, which we settled in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 for $74 million in cash.
The $6 million paid in addition to the recognized liability was recorded to general and administrative expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we received aggregate consideration of $1.1 billion, consisting of approximately $960 million in cash and shares of common stock representing an approximate 28% interest in the outstanding common stock of DigiCert valued at $160 million as of October 31, 2017.
We record our interest in the net earnings (loss) of DigiCert based on the most recently available financial statements of DigiCert, which are provided to us on a three month lag, along with adjustments for unrealized profits or losses on intra-entity transactions and amortization of basis differences, in Income (loss) from equity interests in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
As of the transaction close date, we also had $8 million in cumulative currency translation losses related to subsidiaries that were sold, which was reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) to the gain on divestiture.
In addition, we incurred direct costs of $8 million, which was netted against the gain on divestiture, and tax expense of $137 million.
The gain on sale of short-term investment represents the gain on the sale of a short-term investment that was included in the transaction and resulted in the reclassification on the transaction close date of $7 million of unrealized gains from AOCI to the gain on divestiture.
During the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded income of $10 million and associated direct costs of $2 million for all services provided to DigiCert in Other income (expense) in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Based on the closing price of our common stock of $28.06 on December 29, 2017, the if-converted values of our 2.5% and 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes exceed the principal amount by approximately $337 million and $469 million, respectively.
On January 31, 2018, we declared a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid on March 14, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 20, 2018.
All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all shares of unvested restricted stock and performance-based stock as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we entered into an accelerated stock repurchase (“ASR”) agreement with financial institutions to repurchase an aggregate of $500 million of our common stock.
Pursuant to the ASR agreement, we made an upfront payment of $500 million to the financial institutions and received and retired an initial delivery of 14.2 million shares of our common stock.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the ASR and received and retired an additional delivery of 2.2 million shares of our common stock.
The tax expense (benefit) associated with stock-based compensation expense for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 reflects the impact of the enactment of the Act. The tax benefit associated with stock-based compensation expense for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 reflects the historic tax rates.
As with our other indemnification obligations, such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses and to date, generally under our real estate obligations, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations under our leases and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
As reported on the GSA’s publicly-available database, our total sales under the GSA Schedule contract were approximately $222 million from the period beginning January 2007 and ending September 2012.
We have fully cooperated with the government throughout its investigation and in January 2014, representatives of the government indicated that their initial analysis of our actual damages exposure from direct government sales under the GSA schedule was approximately $145 million; since the initial meeting, the government’s analysis of our potential damages exposure relating to direct sales has increased.
The decision reversed or vacated all but $8 million of the judgment against Blue Coat and remanded to the District Court to determine whether Finjan is entitled to a new trial on damages related to one of the patents.


item2.txt
For more information on our operating segments see Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our percentage of revenues from the Americas for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 increased compared to prior year periods primarily as a result of LifeLock sales which are entirely U.S.-based.
Our cost of revenues increased $174 million, or 29%, primarily due to cost of revenues related to our acquired Blue Coat and LifeLock products, including $83 million of increased amortization of acquired intangible assets and $52 million of increased technical support costs primarily driven by the LifeLock acquisition.
Research and development expense increased $21 million, or 10%, primarily due to an increase of $24 million in stock-based compensation expense primarily related to the equity awards assumed or granted in connection with our acquisitions.
Sales and marketing expense increased $233 million, or 23%, primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $143 million in advertising and promotional expense, largely related to LifeLock, $60 million in stock-based compensation expense, primarily from awards assumed in acquisitions, and $36 million in other compensation and benefits expense.
Research and development expense increased $125 million, or 22%, primarily as a result of increased expenses from the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, including increases of $79 million in stock-based compensation expense and $23 million in other compensation and benefits expense.
General and administrative expense increased $71 million primarily as a result of increases of $70 million in stock-based compensation expense and $28 million in other compensation and benefits expense, primarily due to the Blue Coat and LifeLock acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease of $34 million in acquisition-related costs due to a lower level of acquisition activities in fiscal 2018.
Our stock-based compensation expense included in operating expenses increased $209 million, or 96%, primarily due to the equity awards assumed in our acquisitions, and the expected level of achievement for performance-based equity awards.
During the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we also incurred divestiture costs as a result of the sale of our WSS and PKI solutions, as well as costs associated with our other transition and transformation programs including the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system and costs to automate business processes.
Restructuring, transition and other costs primarily consisted of $11 million and $75 million of severance costs and transition costs, respectively, during the third quarter in fiscal 2018, compared to $19 million and$26 million, respectively, during the same period in fiscal 2017.
Restructuring, transition and other costs primarily consisted of $50 million and $195 million of severance costs and transition costs, respectively, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to $57 million and $71 million, respectively, during the same period in fiscal 2017.
Non-operating income (expense), net, increased during the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017, primarily due to a $658 million gain as a result of our divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
The increase in non-operating income (expense), net, for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 from our divestiture was partially offset by increased interest expense of $65 million mainly related to the timing of the issuance of the borrowings in fiscal 2017 as well as a foreign currency net loss of $26 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to a net gain of $3 million in the same period in fiscal 2017.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences.
Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences and tax expense related to the loss of tax attributes due to restructuring activities.
For the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit of $30 million and an income tax expense of $7 million on discontinued operations, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, we recorded an income tax benefit of $85 million and an income tax expense of $49 million on discontinued operations, respectively.
Revenue increased $258 million, or 15%, primarily due to the full period impact of the Blue Coat acquisition, partially offset by a decrease of $80 million in revenue as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions on October 31, 2017.
Operating income increased $266 million, or 240%, primarily due to the contribution from the Blue Coat acquisition.
Revenue increased $187 million, or 47%, primarily due to revenue from sales of LifeLock products in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, which were absent in the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
Operating income increased $89 million, or 42%, primarily due to the contribution from the LifeLock acquisition.
Revenue increased $462 million, or 38%, primarily due to revenue from sales of LifeLock products in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, which were absent in the same period in fiscal 2017.
Operating income increased $122 million, or 18%, primarily due to the contribution from the LifeLock acquisition.
Our principal cash requirements primarily consist of acquisitions, operating expenses, payment of taxes, capital expenditures, and contractual payments of principal and interest on debt.
We expect the plan to be substantially completed in the first half of fiscal 2019 and expect additional cash charges of approximately $70 million to $90 million, primarily related to severance benefits and facilities exit costs.
The following summarizes selected items in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, in millions.
Our cash flows from operations for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 were $684 million, compared to net cash used of $564 million for the same period in fiscal 2017.
Our cash flows in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 reflected $1.6 billion of discrete deferred income tax benefit related to adjustments of deferred taxes as a result of the enactment of the Act in December 2017 and $821 million in taxes payable as a result of transition taxes.
Our cash flows in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 reflected a one-time tax payment of $887 million related to the gain on sale from the divestiture of Veritas.
In addition, our cash flows from operations in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, were favorably impacted by an increase in deferred revenue of $258 million, reflecting increased billings and collections for ratable contracts, as well as longer contract duration.
Our investing activities during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included $946 million in net cash proceeds from the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by $402 million paid for acquisitions during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to $4.5 billion paid during the same period for fiscal 2017 for the Blue Coat acquisition.
Our financing cash flows consist primarily of issuances and repayments of debt, payment of dividends and dividend equivalents to stockholders, and tax payments related to shares withheld in the settlement of restricted stock units (“RSUs”).
Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements and we have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
As with our other indemnification obligations, such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses and to date, generally under our real estate obligations, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations under our leases and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on lease accounting which will require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and will also require disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.


part2.txt
Information with respect to this Item may be found under the heading “Litigation contingencies” in Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
†This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.


