item1.txt
In connection with the sale of certain assets of our Enterprise Security business as disclosed in Basis of presentation below, effective November 4, 2019, we changed our corporate name from Symantec Corporation to NortonLifeLock Inc. On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement with Broadcom Inc.
As a result, the majority of results of our Enterprise Security business were classified as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and thus excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented.
Results of discontinued operations include all revenues and expenses directly derived from the Enterprise Security business, with the exception of revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, and general corporate overhead which were previously allocated to the Enterprise Security segment but are not allocated to discontinued operations.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance on lease accounting which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and also requires disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities of $182 million and $209 million, respectively, as of March 30, 2019 related to our operating leases.
Our discontinued operations consist of our divested Enterprise Security assets and also includes results of our previously divested Veritas information management business (Veritas).
We recorded a $665 million tax benefit in discontinued operations during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019 to remeasure the deferred tax assets associated with the tax basis of intellectual property held by our subsidiaries organized in Ireland.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019 was $427 million and $767 million, respectively.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at June 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018 was $443 million and $766 million, respectively.
As of October 4, 2019, we had $626 million of remaining performance obligations, which does not include customer deposit liabilities of $390 million, of which we expect to recognize approximately 96% as revenue over the next twelve months.
Cash payments made for variable lease costs are not included in the measurement of our operating lease assets and liabilities.
Goodwill and intangible assets to be disposed of as a result of our agreement with Broadcom to sell certain assets of Enterprise Security business were included in assets of discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, and accordingly, are excluded from the tables above.
We recorded a loss from equity interests of $11 million and $22 million during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019, respectively, and $34 million and $60 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, in Other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
As a result of this decision, we recorded a cumulative income tax expense of $62 million in six months ended October 4, 2019.
In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries, and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us.
Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements, and we have not accrued any material liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
As a condition to consenting to the assignments, certain lessors required us to agree to indemnify the lessor under the applicable lease with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries’ breach of payment obligations under the terms of the lease.
As with our other indemnification obligations, such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses, and to date, generally under our real estate obligations, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations under our leases and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Purported shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed against us and certain of our former officers and current and former directors in the U.S. District Courts for the District of Delaware and the Northern District of California, Delaware Chancery Court, and Delaware Superior Court, arising generally out of the same facts and circumstances as alleged in the securities class action and alleging claims for breach of fiduciary duty and related claims; these lawsuits include an action brought derivatively on behalf of our 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we were advised by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Civil Division and the Civil Division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Multiple Award Schedule Contract No. GS-35F-0240T effective January 24, 2007, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices.
The final resolution of these lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
On November 4, 2019, we completed the sale of certain assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of our Enterprise Security business to Broadcom for a purchase price of $10.7 billion.
The credit agreement contains customary representations and warranties, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, affirmative and negative covenants, including a covenant that we maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of not more than 5.25 to 1.0, or 5.75 to 1.0 if we acquire assets or business in an aggregate amount greater than $250 million, and restrictions on subsidiary indebtedness, liens, stock repurchases, and dividends (with exceptions permitting our regular quarterly dividend).
If we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business.
As a result, we are dependent on Broadcom for services and technology that are critical to our business, and if Broadcom fails to deliver these Engine-Related Services it would result in significant business disruption, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.
Additionally, in connection with the divestiture, our Board of Directors committed to returning the proceeds of the Broadcom sale to stockholders in the form of a capital return program, including a special dividend of $12 per share and the August 2019 increase of our existing share repurchase authorization from $500 million to $1.6 billion.
Although we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations.
In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results.
Matters relating to or arising from our completed Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters, and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
Accordingly, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Similarly, experienced computer programmers or other sophisticated individuals or entities, including malicious hackers, state-sponsored organizations, and insider threats including actions by employees and third-party service providers, may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our systems and websites and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network.
Interruptions in our products and services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network, could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us.
We collect, use, store or disclose (collectively, process) an increasingly large amount of personal information, including from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business, particularly in relation to our identity and information protection offerings.
Additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions.
The success of each acquisition depends in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies and growth prospects from integrating these businesses in an efficient and effective manner.
Our solutions are subject to a high degree of regulation, including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTC Act), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the FTC Act. Moreover, LifeLock entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the FTC and 35 states’ attorneys general in 2010 and a settlement with the FTC in 2015 relating to allegations that certain of LifeLock’s advertising and marketing practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the FTC Act, which impose additional restrictions on the LifeLock business, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of “the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of” LifeLock’s identity theft protection services.
Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs, and access to capital markets.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, and access to capital markets.
Changes in the method of determining LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect interest rates on our current or future indebtedness and may otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.


item2.txt
•Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, increased $696 million primarily due to higher income tax benefits.
•Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of taxes, increased $204 million primarily due to the higher operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.
•Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, increased $675 million primarily due to higher income tax benefits.
Net revenues increased $34 million compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2019 primarily due to approximately $44 million of revenue from the additional week in the first six months of fiscal 2020.
Sales and marketing expense increased $14 million primarily due to a $30 million increase in advertising and promotional expense, partially offset by $5 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense.
Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes increased $675 million primarily due to a $633 million increase in income tax benefit as a result of the $665 tax benefit discussed above and a $57 million increase in net revenues, partially offset by a $37 million increase in restructuring, transition and other costs.
Our cash flows for the first six months of fiscal 2020 reflected net income of $811 million, adjusted by non-cash items, including a deferred income tax benefit of $707 million, amortization and depreciation of $251 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $150 million, compared to a net loss of $68 million adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $305 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $210 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019.
Our investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2020 consisted primarily of cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $120 million partially offset by capital expenditures of $76 million, while our investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of capital expenditures of $95 million, partially offset by cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $99 million.
Our financing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2020 included common stock repurchases of $559 million, payments of dividends and dividend equivalents of $98 million and tax withholding payments related to restricted stock units (RSUs) of $65 million, partially offset by net proceeds from sales of common stock under employee stock incentive plans of $68 million.


part2.txt
If we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business.
As a result, we are dependent on Broadcom for services and technology that are critical to our business, and if Broadcom fails to deliver these Engine-Related Services it would result in significant business disruption, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.
If we are unable to develop new and enhanced solutions that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing solutions or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our competitive position may weaken, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
Although we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations.
In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results.
In the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our solutions to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results.
Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these lower cost or free security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured solutions, such as those that we provide.
Matters relating to or arising from our completed Audit Committee Investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters, and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal and other professional services in connection with the ongoing SEC investigation, which may continue to adversely affect our business and financial condition.
Further, an unfavorable resolution of litigations, proceedings or actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows.
Any future investigations or additional lawsuits may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
If any of the lawsuits related to our Audit Committee Investigation are decided adversely, we may be liable for significant damages directly or under our indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.
Further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable, and these actions may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could further adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows.
Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
Accordingly, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
A disruption or failure of these systems or operations because of a disaster or other business continuity event could cause data to be lost or otherwise delay our ability to complete sales and provide the highest level of service to our customers.
We collect, use, store or disclose (collectively, process) an increasingly large amount of personal information, including from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business, particularly in relation to our identity and information protection offerings.
Additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions.
In addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could adversely affect our operating results.
Our solutions are subject to a high degree of regulation, including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTC Act), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the FTC Act. Moreover, LifeLock entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the FTC and 35 states’ attorneys general in 2010 and a settlement with the FTC in 2015 relating to allegations that certain of LifeLock’s advertising and marketing practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the FTC Act, which impose additional restrictions on the LifeLock business, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of “the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of” LifeLock’s identity theft protection services.
Any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers.
In addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results.
From time to time we are a party to lawsuits and investigations, which typically require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
The expense of initiating and defending, and in some cases settling, such litigation may be costly and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows.
In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant fines, settlements, monetary damages, or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows.


