The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
We have prepared the accompanying financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
During the three month period ended June 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to any critical accounting policies or to the methodology used in determining estimates including those related to investment securities, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, property and equipment, and contingencies other than those discussed below and in Note 3 related to revenue recognition.
We recognize revenue as performance obligations are satisfied, which is when the customer takes control of the products as they are shipped to or received by the customer in accordance with the terms of the agreement of sale.
There are general product warranties within our contracts, as the Company warrants that products will function as expected in accordance with the specifications per the contract.
Substantially all of the Company’s receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward.
The Company applies the practical expedient within ASC 606 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component in the determination of the transaction price.
Based on the evaluation of our resale arrangements with Kyocera, including consideration of the primary indicators set forth in ASC 606, we record revenue related to products purchased and resold on a gross basis.
The Company pays commissions to sales representatives on a per-sale basis and applies the practical expedient available within ASC 340.
The Company recognizes the estimated variable consideration to be received as revenue and records a related reduction to accounts receivable or as an accrued expense for the consideration not expected to be received, based upon its estimate of credits issued or products returned under the sales allowance programs described below.
We utilize the “portfolio approach” practical expedient in ASC 606, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
Using the “portfolio approach,” we believe we have an adequate basis to assess the reasonableness and reliability of our estimates for each program.
Sales revenue and cost of sales reported in the statement of operations are reduced to reflect estimated returns.