Available Information
Overview and Highlights
The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices and personal computers, and sells a variety of related software, services, accessories and third-party digital content and applications. The Company’s products and services include iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, AirPods, Apple TV, HomePod, a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, iOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS operating systems, iCloud, Apple Pay and a variety of other accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, Mac App Store, TV App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music (collectively “Digital Content and Services”). The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party Apple-compatible products, including application software and various accessories through its retail and online stores. The Company sells to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers.
Business Strategy
Business Seasonality and Product Introductions
Fiscal Period
The Company’s fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. The first quarter of 2018 spanned 13 weeks, whereas a 14th week was added to the first quarter of 2017, as is done every five or six years, to realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters.
Third Quarter Fiscal 2018 Highlights
During the third quarter of 2018, the Company announced iOS 12, macOS Mojave, watchOS 5 and tvOS 12, updates to its operating systems which are expected to be available in the fall of 2018.
The Company spent $20.0 billion to repurchase shares of its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents of $3.7 billion during the third quarter of 2018.
Sales Data
Product Performance
iPhone net sales increased during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 due primarily to a different mix of iPhones resulting in higher average selling prices.
iPad net sales decreased during the third quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due primarily to a different mix of iPads resulting in lower average selling prices. iPad net sales increased year-over-year during the first nine months of 2018 due primarily to higher iPad unit sales and the strength in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. 
Mac net sales decreased during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 due primarily to lower Mac unit sales. The launch of MacBook Pro® in the first quarter of 2017 and the updated Mac portables in the third quarter of 2017 contributed to higher Mac net sales and unit sales during the first nine months of 2017. 
Services net sales increased during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 due primarily to licensing, App Store and AppleCare. During the third quarter of 2018, the Company recognized a favorable one-time item of $236 million in connection with the final resolution of various lawsuits.
Segment Operating Performance
The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Company’s reportable segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest of Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included in the Company’s other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the Company’s customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics of each geographic region. Further information regarding the Company’s reportable segments can be found in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, “Segment Information and Geographic Data.”
Americas
Americas net sales increased during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone and Services.
Europe net sales increased during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone and Services. Additionally, the strength in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact on Europe net sales. 
Greater China
Greater China net sales increased during the third quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone and Other Products. Greater China net sales increased year-over-year during the first nine months of 2018 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone and Services. The strength in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar also had a favorable impact on Greater China net sales during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018.
Japan net sales increased during the third quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due primarily to higher net sales of Services. Japan net sales increased year-over-year during the first nine months of 2018 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone and Services. Additionally, the value of the Japanese Yen relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact on Japan net sales during the third quarter of 2018 and an unfavorable impact during the first nine months of 2018.
Rest of Asia Pacific
Rest of Asia Pacific net sales increased during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 compared to the same periods in 2017 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone and Services. Additionally, the strength in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact on Rest of Asia Pacific net sales. 
Gross Margin
Research and Development
Selling, General and Administrative
On August 30, 2016, the European Commission announced its decision that Ireland granted state aid to the Company by providing tax opinions in 1991 and 2007 concerning the tax allocation of profits of the Irish branches of two subsidiaries of the Company (the “State Aid Decision”). The State Aid Decision ordered Ireland to calculate and recover additional taxes from the Company for the period June 2003 through December 2014. The recovery amount was calculated to be €13 billion, plus interest of €1 billion. Irish legislative changes, effective as of January 2015, eliminated the application of the tax opinions from that date forward. The Company believes the State Aid Decision to be without merit and appealed to the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Ireland has also appealed the State Aid Decision. The Company believes that any incremental Irish corporate income taxes potentially due related to the State Aid Decision would be creditable against U.S. taxes, subject to any foreign tax credit limitations in the Act. During the third quarter of 2018, the Company began funding amounts into escrow, where they will remain pending conclusion of all appeals.
On July 24, 2018, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the U.S. Tax Court's decision in Altera Corp v. Commissioner. As a result of this reversal, the Company expects to include share-based compensation in cost-sharing arrangements with its foreign subsidiaries. The Company is still evaluating the effect of this reversal and anticipates recognizing the impact during the fourth quarter of 2018.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Hedging
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”), which modifies lease accounting for lessees to increase transparency and comparability by recording lease assets and liabilities for operating leases and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 in its first quarter of 2020 utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. While the Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2016-02, based on the lease portfolio as of June 30, 2018, the Company anticipates recording lease assets and liabilities of approximately $8.8 billion on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, with no material impact to its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. However, the ultimate impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 will depend on the Company’s lease portfolio as of the adoption date.
Financial Instruments 
Revenue Recognition 
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (“ASU 2014-09”), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers.
The new revenue standards may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. The Company will adopt the new revenue standards in its first quarter of 2019 utilizing the full retrospective transition method. The new revenue standards are not expected to have a material impact on the amount and timing of revenue recognized in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months. The Company currently anticipates the cash used for future dividends, the share repurchase program and debt repayments will come from its current cash and cash generated from ongoing operating activities.
In connection with the State Aid Decision, the Company began funding amounts into escrow during the third quarter of 2018, where they will remain pending conclusion of all appeals. As of June 30, 2018, €4.5 billion of the recovery amount was funded into escrow and was restricted from general use. Subsequent to June 30, 2018, the Company has funded an additional €4.5 billion of the recovery amount into escrow. The Company expects to fund the remaining recovery amount during the fourth quarter of 2018.
The Company’s marketable securities investment portfolio is primarily invested in highly rated securities, and its investment policy generally limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. The policy generally requires securities to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, cash generated by operating activities of $57.9 billion was a result of $45.4 billion of net income and an increase in the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $33.9 billion, partially offset by non-cash adjustments to net income of $21.4 billion. Cash generated by investing activities of $19.1 billion during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 consisted primarily of proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $31.8 billion, partially offset by cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $10.3 billion. Cash used in financing activities of $65.3 billion during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 consisted primarily of cash used to repurchase common stock of $53.6 billion, cash used to pay dividends and dividend equivalents of $10.2 billion and cash used to repay term debt of $6.5 billion, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of term debt, net of $7.0 billion.
Capital Assets
The Company’s capital expenditures were $11.1 billion during the first nine months of 2018. The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $17.0 billion for capital expenditures during 2018, which includes product tooling and manufacturing process equipment; data centers; corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements; and retail store facilities.
Debt
The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant to a commercial paper program. The Company uses the net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had $12.0 billion of Commercial Paper outstanding, with a weighted-average interest rate of 2.03% and maturities generally less than nine months.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $104.1 billion (collectively the “Notes”). During the first nine months of 2018, the Company repaid $6.5 billion of its Notes. The Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on the Notes. In addition, the Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into foreign currency swaps to manage foreign currency risk on the Notes. 
Further information regarding the Company’s debt issuances and related hedging activity can be found in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 2, “Financial Instruments” and Note 5, “Debt.”
Capital Return Program
During the third quarter of 2018, the Company repurchased 112.8 million shares of its common stock for $20.0 billion in connection with two separate share repurchase programs. Of the $20.0 billion, $10.4 billion was repurchased under the Company’s previous share repurchase program of up to $210 billion, thereby completing that program. On May 1, 2018, the Company announced the Board of Directors had authorized a new program to repurchase up to $100 billion of the Company’s common stock. The remaining $9.6 billion repurchased during the third quarter of 2018 was in connection with the new share repurchase program.
On May 1, 2018, the Company also announced the Board of Directors raised the Company’s quarterly cash dividend from $0.63 to $0.73 per share, beginning with the dividend paid during the third quarter of 2018. The Company intends to increase its dividend on an annual basis, subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. The Company plans to use current cash and cash generated from ongoing operating activities to fund its share repurchase program and quarterly cash dividend.
Operating Leases
As of June 30, 2018, the Company’s total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $9.6 billion. The Company’s retail store and other facility leases typically have original terms not exceeding 10 years and generally contain multi-year renewal options.
Manufacturing Purchase Obligations
The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners to manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company’s products and to perform final assembly and testing of finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods up to 150 days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. As of June 30, 2018, the Company expects to pay $31.4 billion under manufacturing-related supplier arrangements, substantially all of which is noncancelable.
Other Purchase Obligations
Indemnification
The Company offers an iPhone Upgrade Program, which is available to customers who purchase a qualifying iPhone in the U.S., the U.K. and mainland China. The iPhone Upgrade Program provides customers the right to trade in that iPhone for a specified amount when purchasing a new iPhone, provided certain conditions are met. The Company accounts for the trade-in right as a guarantee liability and recognizes arrangement revenue net of the fair value of such right, with subsequent changes to the guarantee liability recognized within revenue.
The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such individuals to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers of the Company and to advance expenses incurred by such individuals in connection with related legal proceedings. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of payments the Company could be required to make under these agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each claim. While the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers
