fls.txt
In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, uncertain events or assumptions, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.


item2.txt
This interim MD&A should be read in conjunction with the MD&A in our 2017 Form 10-K.
In October 2015, Corning announced a strategy and capital allocation framework (the “Framework”) that reflects the Company’s financial and operational strengths, as well as its ongoing commitment to increasing shareholder value.
We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength.
We believe 2018 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework, and anticipate that segment net sales will grow to approximately $11 billion.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with year-over-year declines reaching mid-single digits, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns.
We anticipate Corning’s LCD glass volume will grow faster than the expected LCD glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
In the Optical Communications segment, we expect sales to increase by about 10%, excluding any contribution from the pending acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division, driven by strong demand from carrier and enterprise network customers, supported by our planned capacity additions.
We expect sales growth of approximately 10% in our Environmental Technologies segment, driven by continued strength in automotive product sales, on-going improvements in the heavy-duty diesel market and from the commercial launch of gas-particulate filters.
We anticipate mid-single digit growth in the Life Sciences segment.
·    An increase of $22 million in the Life Sciences segment, driven by higher sales in North America and China.
Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $87 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
·    An increase of $18 million in corporate spending primarily related to new information technology platforms and outside legal fees.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly in the first quarter, when compared to the same period last year.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 comprehensive (loss) income decreased by $890 million when compared to the same period in 2017, due to a decrease in net income of $675 million, the negative impact of the change in foreign currency translation gains and losses of $186 million, driven primarily by the Japanese yen and the euro, and a decrease in net unrealized gains of designated hedges of $26 million.
Additionally, Corning has adopted the use of constant currency reporting for our Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments for the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan and New Taiwan dollar currencies.
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.
In the three months ended March 31, 2018, we generated core earnings of $299 million or $0.31 per share, compared to core earnings generated in the three months ended March 31, 2017 of $376 million, or $0.36 per share.
Included in core earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 is net periodic pension expense in the amounts of $12 million and $13 million, respectively.
·    Display Technologies – manufactures glass substrates primarily for flat panel liquid crystal displays.
·    Optical Communications – manufactures carrier and enterprise network components for the telecommunications industry.
·    Specialty Materials – manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs.
We prepared the financial results for our reportable segments on a basis that is consistent with the manner in which we internally disaggregate financial information to assist the CODM in making internal operating decisions.
We included the earnings of equity affiliates that are closely associated with our reportable segments in the respective segment’s net income.
Segment net income may not be consistent with measures used by other companies.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.
There have been no material changes to Part I, Item 1A.


