In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, uncertain events or assumptions, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.See our 2018 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength.
Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $2.8 billion, compared to $2.5 billion in the same period in 2018.
The increase was led by the Optical Communications segment, which increased $178 million, due to higher sales of carrier network products in North America, an increase in sales of enterprise network products from growth in hyper-scale data centers and sales from our acquisition of 3M’s Communication Markets Division (“CMD”).
Diluted earnings per share increased by $1.27 per share when compared to the first quarter of 2018, driven by the increase in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 55.5 million shares of common stock over the last twelve months.
We believe 2019 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect full year 2019 price declines to improve further to a mid-single digit percentage.
We anticipate Corning’s display glass volume will grow faster than the expected display glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by television screen size growth and the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
We expect approximately ten percent or slightly higher sales growth in our Environmental Technologies segment.
We anticipate low to mid-single digit percentage growth in sales for the Life Sciences segment.
Movements in foreign exchange rates increased Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $25 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019, when compared to the prior year.
In the three months ended March 31, 2019, gross margin increased by $144 million, or 15% primarily driven by an increase in sales across all operating segments.
·    An increase of $25 million in the Optical Communications segment, driven largely by the acquisition of CMD in June 2018.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses decreased by 1% when compared to the same period last year.
Equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased by $14 million, driven by the absence of a gain recorded in the first quarter of 2018 resulting from a legal settlement.
(1) The impact to income was primarily driven by yen-denominated hedges of translated earnings.
·    The release of foreign valuation allowances on deferred tax assets that are now considered realizable from the restructuring of certain Israeli operations.See our 2018 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.