fls.txt
In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, uncertain events or assumptions, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.


item2.txt
We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength.
The increase in both periods was led by the Optical Communications segment, which increased $141 million and $209 million, respectively, due to higher sales of carrier network products in North American and Europe, and an increase in sales of enterprise network products from growth in data centers.
Life Sciences sales increased by $24 million and $46 million, respectively, driven by higher sales across all product lines.
Net sales in the Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments increased by $3 million and $6 million, respectively, for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Diluted earnings per share increased by $0.36 per share, or 86%, when compared to the second quarter of 2017, driven by the increase in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 24.6 million shares of common stock for approximately $674 million.
We believe 2018 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework, and anticipate that segment net sales will reach approximately $11.3 billion, an increase from prior expectations of $11.0 billion.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with year-over-year declines reaching mid-single digits in the third quarter, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns.
We anticipate Corning’s LCD glass volume will grow faster than the expected LCD glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
In the Optical Communications segment, we expect sales to increase in the high-teen percentage range with organic growth improving by a low-teen percentage range with an additional $200 million from the acquisition of 3M’s Communications Market Division, driven by strong demand from carrier and enterprise network customers.
Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $50 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
·    An increase of $46 million in the Life Sciences segment, driven by higher sales in North America, Europe and China.
Movements in foreign exchange rates impacted Corning’s consolidated net sales in the amount of $137 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018, when compared to the prior year.
In the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, gross margin increased by $85 million, or 9%, and $89 million, or 5%, respectively, primarily driven by an increase in sales.
·    An increase of $13 million in corporate spending primarily related to new information technology platforms and outside legal fees.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly when compared to the same period last year.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly when compared to the same period last year.
·    A $28 million benefit from the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets that are now considered realizable.
·    A $28 million benefit from the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets that are now considered realizable.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 comprehensive (loss) income decreased by $1,044 million when compared to the same period in 2017, due to a decrease in net income of $376 million, the negative impact of the change in foreign currency translation gains and losses of $568 million, driven primarily by the Japanese yen and the Korean won, and a decrease in net unrealized gains of designated hedges of $62 million.
Additionally, Corning has adopted the use of constant currency reporting for our Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments for the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan and New Taiwan dollar currencies.
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.
·    Display Technologies – manufactures glass substrates primarily for flat panel liquid crystal displays.
·    Optical Communications – manufactures carrier and enterprise network components for the telecommunications industry.
·    Specialty Materials – manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs.
We prepared the financial results for our reportable segments on a basis that is consistent with the manner in which we internally disaggregate financial information to assist the CODM in making internal operating decisions.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.
There have been no material changes to Part I, Item 1A.


