fls.txt
In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, uncertain events or assumptions, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.


item2.txt
We designed the Framework to create significant value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength.
The increase in both periods was led by the Optical Communications segment, which increased $200 million and $409 million, respectively, due to higher sales of carrier network products in North America and Europe, an increase in sales of enterprise network products from growth in data centers and sales from 3M’s Communications Market Division which we acquired in June.
Net sales in the Display Technologies segment increased by $57 million and $23 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, with volumes exceeding the display glass market’s strong growth and more than offsetting price declines.
Life Sciences sales increased by $8 million and $54 million, respectively, driven by higher sales across all product lines.
·    Lower segment net income in the All Other segment, down $8 million, resulting from continued investment in product development.
Diluted earnings per share increased by $0.28 per share, or 72%, when compared to the third quarter of 2017, driven by the increase in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 76 million shares of common stock over the last twelve months.
·    An increase in the translated earnings contract gains of $174 million.
Diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.07 per share, or 8%, when compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017, driven by the decrease in net income described above, coupled with the repurchase of 76 million shares of common stock over the last twelve months.
In our Display Technologies segment, we expect pricing to continue to improve, with moderate year-over-year declines during the fourth quarter, an important milestone toward our goal of stabilizing returns.
For the full year, we anticipate Corning’s glass volume will grow faster than the expected display glass market growth of mid-single digits, driven by the ramp of our Gen 10.5 facility in China.
We expect organic growth will improve by a low-teen percentage range driven by strong demand from carrier and enterprise network customers.
We expect mid-to-high single digit percentage growth in the Life Sciences segment.
In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, gross margin increased by $182 million, or 17%, and $271 million, or 9%, respectively, primarily driven by an increase in sales across all operating segments.
Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased by 1% for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses were flat when compared to the same period last year.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, research, development and engineering expenses increased by $105 million, or 17%, when compared to the same period last year, driven by higher costs associated with new product launches and our emerging businesses.
As a percentage of sales, these expenses increased slightly when compared to the same period last year.
In the third quarter ending September 30, 2018, equity in earnings of affiliated companies remain relatively consistent with the prior year.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018 comprehensive income increased by $79 million when compared to the same period in 2017, due to an increase in net income of $235 million and higher unrealized gains on designated hedges of $23 million, offset by the negative impact of the change in foreign currency translation gains and losses of $181 million, driven primarily by the Japanese yen and the Korean won.
Additionally, Corning has adopted the use of constant currency reporting for our Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments for the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan and New Taiwan dollar currencies.
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” below.
·    Display Technologies – manufactures glass substrates primarily for flat panel displays.
·    Optical Communications – manufactures carrier and enterprise network components for the telecommunications industry.
·    Specialty Materials – manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs.
We prepared the financial results for our reportable segments on a basis that is consistent with the manner in which we internally disaggregate financial information to assist the CODM in making internal operating decisions.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, we have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.


part2.txt
See our 2017 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 3.
There have been no material changes to Part I, Item 1A.


