fls.txt



item1.txt
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; investment impairments; income taxes and fair value measurements.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
Additional information is presented below and in Note 10 – Leases.
Leases − We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception, and we classify leases as operating or finance leases at commencement.
In our condensed consolidated balance sheets, operating lease ROU assets are included in other non-current assets, while finance lease ROU assets are included in property and equipment, net.
Lease liabilities for both types of leases are included in accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities.
As the rate implicit in our leases is typically not readily determinable, in computing the present value of lease payments we generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on information available at the commencement date.
We do not separate non-lease components from lease components for any class of leases, and we do not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for leases with a lease term of twelve months or less.
The standard introduces a new model for measuring and recognizing credit losses on financial instruments, requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted.
In September 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell certain land and buildings located in Sunnyvale, California, through two separate and independent closings, the first of which was completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Other non-current assets as of each July 26, 2019 and April 26, 2019 includes $78 million for our 49% non-controlling equity interest in Lenovo NetApp Technology Limited, a China-based entity that we formed with Lenovo (Beijing) Information Technology Ltd. in fiscal 2019.
Prior to this grouping change, Hybrid FAS products and branded E-Series were included in Strategic, while all add-on hardware and OS software were included in Mature.


item2.txt
We focus on delivering an exceptional customer experience to become our customers’ preferred data partner.
NetApp believes the hybrid cloud is fast becoming the dominant model for enterprise IT.
FlexPod is the converged infrastructure of choice for many of the largest enterprises around the globe.
Prior to this grouping change, Hybrid FAS products and branded E-Series were included in Strategic, while all add-on hardware and OS software were included in Mature.
Revenues generated by our Cloud Data Services offerings are included in software maintenance revenues.
During the first three months of fiscal 2020, we repurchased four million shares of our common stock at an average price of $64.87 per share, for an aggregate of $250 million.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.
These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-Q or elsewhere.
Our business may be harmed by technological trends in our market or if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological and market changes.
Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks.
are introduced, we must also avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and related components and ensure that new products and services can be delivered to meet customers’ demands.
As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition.
We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
As customer demand for our consumption model offerings increases, we will experience differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional hardware and software license arrangements, including for the software license components of enterprise software license agreements (for which revenue is generally recognized in full at the time of delivery), relative to our consumption model offerings, (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement).


