fls.txt



item1.txt
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020, although early adoption is permitted.
It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted.
Substantially all of the purchase price was recorded to goodwill.
The new standard also impacts our estimation of variable consideration for certain arrangements with contract terms such as rights of return, potential penalties and acceptance clauses.
The adoption of ASC 606 had no impact to cash provided by or used in operating, investing or financing activities as presented on our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
The core principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
We also combine two or more contracts entered into at or near the same time with the same customer as a single contract if the contracts are negotiated as one package with a single commercial objective, the amount of consideration to be paid on one contract depends on the price or performance of the other contract or if the goods and services promised in each of the contracts are a single performance obligation.
A good or service is distinct if it is capable of being distinct, where the customer can benefit from the goods or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and is distinct in the context of the contract, meaning the transfer of the goods or services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
If these criteria are not met, we combine the goods and services until we have a distinct performance obligation.
Consideration promised may include fixed amounts, variable amounts or both.
We use the expected value, primarily relying on our history, to estimate variable consideration.


item2.txt
In order to successfully digitally transform, data must become the lifeblood of an organization and be used as a business accelerator.
Data-driven digital transformations accelerate business outcomes.
NetApp’s unique approach to managing data holistically enables organizations to inspire innovation with the cloud, build clouds to accelerate new services, and modernize IT architecture with cloud-connected flash.
Continually fuel business growth by delivering data-rich customer experiences through new application deployments that easily use data and services regardless of where they reside or in what form.
Free the resources necessary to fund transformation by deploying the industry’s leading flash storage solution, which is highly efficient and scales from the edge to the core to the cloud.
NetApp believes the hybrid cloud is fast becoming the dominant model for enterprise IT.
Whether an organization is targeting an all-cloud, hybrid cloud, or multi-cloud strategy, NetApp Cloud Data Services accelerate the time it takes to deploy or develop an application by making the data requirements seamless to the application layer.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.
The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes in Part I, Item 1 – Financial Statements and Part I, Item 2 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-Q.
The following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face.
These risks can and will change in the future.
If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products while managing the transition from older products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.
Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and related services.
Our new consumption-based business models may adversely affect our revenues and profitability.


