fls.txt



item1.txt
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; investment impairments; income taxes and fair value measurements.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
Additional information is presented below and in Note 9 – Leases.
Leases − We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception, and we classify leases as operating or finance leases at commencement.
In our condensed consolidated balance sheets, operating lease ROU assets are included in other non-current assets, while finance lease ROU assets are included in property and equipment, net.
Lease liabilities for both types of leases are included in accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities.
As the rate implicit in our leases is typically not readily determinable, in computing the present value of lease payments we generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on information available at the commencement date.
We do not separate non-lease components from lease components for any class of leases, and we do not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for leases with a lease term of twelve months or less.
The standard introduces a new model for measuring and recognizing credit losses on financial instruments, requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted.
Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the acquisition was not material to our results of operations.
Other non-current assets as of October 25, 2019 and April 26, 2019 includes $77 million and $78 million, respectively, for our 49% non-controlling equity interest in Lenovo NetApp Technology Limited, a China-based entity that we formed with Lenovo (Beijing) Information Technology Ltd. in fiscal 2019.


item2.txt
We provide a full range of hybrid cloud data services that simplify management of applications and data across cloud and on-premises environments to accelerate digital transformation.
We deliver a Data Fabric with consistent data services for data visibility and insights, data access and control, and data protection and security, that unleashes the power of data to achieve a new competitive advantage.
NetApp’s unique approach to data services enables organizations to inspire innovation with the cloud, build clouds to accelerate new services, and modernize IT architecture with cloud-connected flash.
Continually fuel business growth by delivering data-rich customer experiences through new application deployments that easily use data and services regardless of where they reside or in what form.
Free the resources necessary to fund transformation by deploying the industry’s leading flash storage solution, which is highly efficient and scales from the edge to the core to the cloud.
NetApp believes the hybrid cloud is fast becoming the dominant model for enterprise IT.
This drives demand for converged and hyper-converged infrastructure solutions.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.
These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-Q or elsewhere.
Our business may be harmed by technological trends in our market or if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological and market changes.
Due to the complexity of storage software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks.
We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
As customer demand for our consumption model offerings increases, we will experience differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional hardware and software license arrangements, including for the software license components of enterprise software license agreements (for which revenue is generally recognized in full at the time of delivery), relative to our consumption model offerings, (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement).
We incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructure and marketing of our consumption model offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings.
Increasing competition and industry consolidation could harm our business and operating results.


