fls.txt



item1.txt
Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week year ending on the last Friday in April.
The statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial information.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
We will adopt this new standard, as amended, on its effective date in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
We do not expect that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our operating cash flows.
accounting for deferred commissions, including costs that qualify for deferral and the amortization period.
We do not expect that the new standard will result in substantive changes in our deliverables or the amounts of revenue allocated between multiple deliverables, with the exception of the items discussed above.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020, although early adoption is permitted.
We are currently in the assessment phase to determine the adoption methodology and are evaluating the impact of this new standard on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted.
In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that requires entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.


item2.txt
We are the data authority for hybrid cloud environments.
We focus on delivering an exceptional customer experience to become their preferred data partner.
We will continue to extend our cloud integration and hybrid cloud leadership by expanding our product offerings and services to match customer needs across the cloud and on-premises.
All-flash array technology is the de facto choice for primary application workloads as customers seek performance and economic benefits by replacing hard disk installations.
We group our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions.
Strategic solutions include Clustered ONTAP, branded E-Series, SolidFire, AltaVault and optional add-on software products.
We also declared cash dividends of an aggregate of $0.60 per share in that period, for which we paid an aggregate of $161 million.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Risk Factors.
These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-Q or elsewhere.
The following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face.
These risks can and will change in the future.
Further risks inherent in new product and solutions introductions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions.
We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities.
Our new consumption based business models may adversely affect our revenues and profitability.
As customer demand for our consumption model offerings increases, we could experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our hardware arrangements and software licenses, (that are generally recognized in full at the time of delivery), relative to our consumption model offering arrangements, (that are generally recognized ratably over the terms of the arrangement).


