Such estimates include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, reserves and allowances; inventory valuation and purchase order accruals; valuation of goodwill and intangibles; restructuring reserves; product warranties; employee compensation and benefit accruals; stock-based compensation; loss contingencies; valuation of investment securities; income taxes and fair value measurements.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
In November 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that requires a statement of cash flows to explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020, although early adoption is permitted.
It also requires that credit losses be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
This new standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted.
Substantially all of the purchase price was recorded to goodwill.
Warranty expense accrued during the period includes amounts accrued for systems at the time of shipment, adjustments for changes in estimated costs for warranties on systems shipped in the period and changes in estimated costs for warranties on systems shipped in prior periods.
The adoption of ASC 606 had no impact to cash provided by or used in operating, investing or financing activities as presented on our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.We are the data authority for the hybrid cloud.
Data-driven digital transformations accelerate business outcomes.
NetApp’s unique approach to managing data holistically enables organizations to inspire innovation with the cloud, build clouds to accelerate new services, and modernize IT architecture with cloud-connected flash.
Continually fuel business growth by delivering data-rich customer experiences through new application deployments that easily use data and services regardless of where they reside or in what form.Risk Factors.
The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes in Part I, Item 1 – Financial Statements and Part I, Item 2 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-Q.
The following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face.
These risks can and will change in the future.