This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors, and also maintains relationships with many original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1.
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
The amounts presented below for the 13-weeks ended March 31, 2018 are presented here as they were originally reported.
Net sales increased 8% for the 13-week period ended March 30, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 12%, contributing 83% of total revenue.
Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 24% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 23% in the first quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the first quarter of 2019 increased to 3,182 when compared to total unit sales of 2,956 in the first quarter of 2018.
The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables.
The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
Auto segment revenue decreased 10% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
Gross profit dollars in the first quarter of 2019 increased 6% primarily due to growth in net sales while gross margin decreased 100 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross margin increased in the auto segment and was relatively flat in the aviation and marine segments when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment gross margin increase was primarily attributable to product mix.
Advertising expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased media advertising in the outdoor segment and increased cooperative advertising in the fitness and marine segments.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year.
The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $4 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $4 million less for the marine segment, and not significantly different for the outdoor, fitness, and auto segments.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and development expense increased 3% in absolute dollars and decreased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
This increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
Operating income increased 6% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
In the current quarter, the growth in operating income in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue and gross profit dollar growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $0.3 million currency gain recognized in the first quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against Taiwan Dollar and weakening against the British Pound Sterling, offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro, within the 13-weeks ended March 30, 2019.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.9% against the Taiwan Dollar and weakened 2.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $5.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 1.9% against the Euro, resulting in a loss of $7.8 million.
The remaining net currency gain of $1.1 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.
The $0.8 million currency gain recognized in the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended March 31, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.7% against the Euro and 3.7% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $8.8 million and $2.0 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.0% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $12.7 million.
The remaining net currency gain of $2.7 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $26.1 million in the 13-week period ended March 30, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $24.6 million in the 13-week period ended March 31, 2018.
As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended March 30, 2019 was $140.2 million compared to $129.4 million for the 13-week period ended March 31, 2018, an increase of $10.8 million.
As of March 30, 2019, we had approximately $2.7 billion of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.
We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, and fund strategic acquisitions.
We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our long-term projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements.
The investment policy’s primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk.
See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities.
These decreases were partially offset by the year over year increase in net income of $10.8 million and other non-cash adjustments to net income of $14.9 million.
The $80.0 million decrease in cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to decreased net purchases of marketable securities of $73.2 million and cash payments for acquisitions of $9.4 million, partially offset by $2.6 million net cash used in other activities.
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.
There were no material changes to the Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates in the 13-week period ended March 30, 2019, other than those discussed in Note 1, “Accounting Policies”.
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
