This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission") in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC's public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The Company’s segments offer products through its network of independent dealers and distributors.
Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Results of Operations have been restated accordingly.
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments' amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1.
Net sales increased 8% for the 13-week period ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 17%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the second quarter of 2018 compared to 22% in the second quarter of 2017.
Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the second quarter of 2017 at 27% and declined to 20% in the second quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the second quarter of 2018 decreased to 3,783 when compared to total unit sales of 3,904 in the second quarter of 2017.
Auto segment revenue decreased 19% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 4%, 24%, 24%, and 23%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The fitness segment revenues increase was primarily driven by strong sales in advanced wearables and cycling products.
Outdoor and aviation segment revenue increases were driven by increased sales across most product lines within each segment.
Cost of goods sold increased 7% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter.
The outdoor segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from increased promotional activity during the second quarter of 2018.
The fitness and aviation segments increase in cost of goods was largely consistent with the increase in sales.
Gross profit dollars in the second quarter of 2018 increased 8% while gross margin increased 30 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
Gross margin in the marine segment increased compared to the year-ago quarter, as discussed above.
Gross margin remained relatively flat across the aviation and fitness segments.
Advertising expense increased 4% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
The total absolute dollar increase was driven primarily by increased cooperative advertising associated with higher sales.
Auto advertising expense, in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue, increased compared to the year-ago quarter primarily due to a refresh of point-of-sale displays.
Advertising expense, as a percent of revenues, decreased in the fitness segment due to greater leverage on fitness advertising spend.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 14% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment increase as a percent of revenues in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to accelerated amortization of an intangible asset related to a previous acquisition.
The increase in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenues in the marine segment was primarily attributable to expenses associated with recent acquisitions.
Research and development expense increased $14.5 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
Operating income increased 4% in absolute dollars and decreased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The growth in operating income in absolute dollars is primarily attributable to revenue growth while the slight decrease in operating income as a percent of revenues is primarily attributable to the increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $2.6 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended June 30, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 4.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $26.7 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 5.2% against the Euro and 5.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $14.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
The remaining net currency loss of $8.2 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions.
The $15.1 million currency gain recognized in the second quarter of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling and slight strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 13-weeks ended July 1, 2017.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 7.3% against the Euro and 3.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $11.5 million and $2.7 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $1.3 million.
The remaining net currency loss of $0.4 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $45.7 million in the 13-week period ended June 30, 2018, compared to income tax expense of $57.3 million in the 13-week period ended July 1, 2017, which included tax expense of $7.3 million associated with the expiration of share-based awards.
The effective tax rate was 19.4% in the second quarter of 2018, compared to 24.5% in the second quarter of 2017.
Excluding the effect of the $7.3 million tax expense associated with the expiration of share-based awards in second quarter of 2017, the second quarter of 2018 effective tax rate decreased 200 basis points compared to the effective tax rate in the prior year quarter primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate.
Net sales increased 9% for the 26-week period ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 18%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
Total unit sales in the first half of 2018 decreased to 6,739 when compared to the total unit sales of 7,003 in the first half of 2017.
Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 11%, 23%, 17%, and 21%, respectively, from the year-ago period.
Marine segment revenue increases were primarily driven by sales from recent acquisitions.
Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong growth in advanced wearables and newly introduced products.
Outdoor segment revenue increases were primarily driven by significant growth in the wearable category.
Aviation revenue increases were driven by strong sales across most product lines.
Cost of goods sold increased 6% in absolute dollars for the 26-week period ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period.
The increase in revenues outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 100 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago period.
In the outdoor and aviation segments, cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue were relatively flat compared to the year-ago period.
Gross profit dollars in the 26-week period ended June 30, 2018 increased 11% while gross margin increased 100 basis points when compared to the year-ago period.
Gross margin declined in the auto segment, as discussed above.
Gross margin increased in the fitness and marine segments primarily due to product mix, as discussed above.
Advertising expense decreased 6% in absolute dollars when compared to the year-ago period.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 15% in absolute dollars and increased 70 basis points as a percent of revenues when compared to the year-ago period.
All segments, except for marine, were relatively flat as a percent of revenues.
In absolute dollars, research and development costs increased $34.2 million when compared with the year-ago period and increased 70 basis points as a percent of revenue.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
Operating income increased 10% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period.
The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis was the result of strong revenue growth.
Operating income was relatively flat as a percent of revenue primarily due to an increase in gross margin, offset by increased operating expenses as discussed above.
The $3.5 million currency gain recognized in the first half of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 26-weeks ended June 30, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $13.9 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.6% against the Euro and 2.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $5.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively.
The remaining net currency loss of $5.2 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 6.8% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $41.6 million, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 8.7% against the Euro and 5.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $14.2 million and $3.5 million, respectively.
The remaining net currency gain of $1.5 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions.
Excluding the income tax benefit of $168.8 million primarily related to the revaluation of Switzerland deferred tax assets, and the $7.3 million tax expense due to the expiration of share-based awards, the effective tax rate for the first half of 2018 decreased 330 basis points compared to the effective tax rate in the first half of 2017 primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate.
As of June 30, 2018, we had $2,422.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.
We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, fund strategic acquisitions, and fund share repurchases.
We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our long-term projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements.
The investment policy’s primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk.
See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities.
The $167.2 million increase in cash used in investing activities in the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 was primarily due to increased net purchases of marketable securities of $117.1 million and higher cash expenditures for purchases of property and equipment of $53.3 million.
The $60.1 million decrease in cash used in financing activities during the first half of 2018 compared to the first half of 2017 was primarily due to decreased purchases of treasury stock under our share repurchase authorization of $64.0 million.
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.
There were no material changes to the Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates in the 13-week and 26-week periods ended June 30, 2018, other than those discussed in Note 1, “Accounting Policies”.
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant.
In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares.
The share repurchase authorization expired on December 31, 2017 with no additional shares having been repurchased during the 26-weeks ended June 30, 2018.
