item1.txt
We classify cloud-based subscriptions and other services, such as font related services, custom font design and post contract support as service revenue on our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, and the International Accounting Standards Board jointly issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (“ASC 606”), which outlines a comprehensive five-step revenue recognition model based on principle that replaces virtually all existing revenue recognition rules under U.S. GAAP and which requires revenue to be recognized in a manner to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
We adopted the standard on January 1, 2018, and applied the modified retrospective method of adoption and have elected to apply the new standard only to contracts not completed at January 1, 2018, which represents contracts for which all (or substantially all) of the revenues have not been recognized under existing guidance as of the date of adoption.
(1) Contract assets, short term are included in the accounts receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
(3) Capitalized contract costs, long term are included in other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
These amounts are included in cost of revenue – license in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
•   Under legacy GAAP, revenue related to our term licenses that were bundled with service-related performance obligations when vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) did not exist was required to be recognized ratably over the term of the agreement.
Under ASC 606, the Company allocates revenue to each performance obligation in the contract and each performance obligation is accounted for separately; the license revenue is recognized at the time of delivery and the service revenue is recognized over time based on their relative standalone selling prices.
Please see Note 4 for the Company’s policies related to revenue recognition and accounting for costs to obtain and fulfill a customer contract.
The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in accounting principle that will more closely align revenue recognition with the delivery of our products and services and will provide financial statement readers with enhanced disclosures.
Our Creative Professional revenue is primarily derived from rights to use font licenses, from custom font design services from and hosted software as a service, or SaaS, offerings.
Revenue from font licenses is recognized upfront when the font software is delivered or made available to the customer.
Custom font design services are generally not a separate distinct performance obligation and are sold with a license for the custom font, in which case revenue is recognized upon completion of the services and when the font is delivered and accepted by the customer.
For our hosted offerings where we provide our customers the right to access our software without taking possession, revenue is recognized over the contract period on a time-elapsed basis, which is consistent with the transfer of service to the customer.
An exception exists for certain contracts for our SaaS offerings or a limited number of multi-year term license agreements which have periodic payment terms, generally quarterly or annually, over the term of the contract.
In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the respective payment terms, we have considered whether such contracts include a significant financing component, subject to the applicable practical expedient.
We have determined our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component; however, the Company will continue to assess (1) the length of time between when the goods or services are delivered and expected payment and (2) prevailing interest rates in the market to re-evaluate this conclusion.
OEM revenue primarily relates to licenses providing our customers the right to embed our fonts and technology in their products over a certain term.
Although significantly less than royalties from per-unit shipments and fixed fees from OEM customers, we also receive revenue from software application and operating systems vendors, who include our fonts and technology in their products and for font development.
Revenue from per-unit royalty contracts is estimated and recognized in the period that the royalty-bearing event or sale by our OEM customer occurs.
Revenue from fixed fee licenses is generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software embodying the font is shipped or made available to the customer.
Certain OEM contracts may include customer support services and unspecified updates for our font technology which is a distinct stand-ready performance obligation and recognized ratably over the service period.
We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price method.
As discussed above, certain of our Creative Professional contracts have payment terms that differ from the timing of revenue recognition which requires us to assess whether the transaction price for those contracts include a significant financing component.
We have elected the practical expedient which permits an entity to not adjust for the effects of a significant financing component if we expect that at the contract inception, the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
For those contracts in which the period exceeds the one year threshold, this assessment, as well as the quantitative estimate of the financing component and its relative significance, requires judgment.
Revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 from amounts included in deferred revenue at the beginning of the period was approximately $6.8 million.
Revenue recognized during the three month ended March 31, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods, mainly due to changes in the estimate of royalty revenues, is approximately $4.3 million.
The contract modifications entered into during the three months ended March 31, 2018 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s contract assets or deferred revenue.
We capitalize incremental costs incurred to fulfill our contracts that (i) relate directly to the contract, (ii) are expected to generate resources that will be used to satisfy the Company’s performance obligation under the contract, and (iii) are expected to be recovered through revenue generated under the contract.
Contract fulfillment costs primarily relate to font license fees that we pay on certain fonts that are owned by third parties.
These fees are related to license revenue that is satisfied at a point in time and payable again upon license renewal, and as a result are incurred immediately upon contract execution.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had $37.8 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to employees and directors unvested stock options and restricted stock awards that are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years.


item2.txt
Revenue was $56.7 million and $52.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, an increase of $4.2 million, or 8.0%.
Creative Professional revenue increased $7.9 million, or 29.3%, to $35.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $27.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, mainly due to growth in sales of revenue from our enterprise customers, including the launch of our Mosaic solution and higher service revenue as SaaS offerings continue to become a larger part of our offering portfolio.
Cost of revenue, excluding amortization of acquired technology, was $12.4 million and $8.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The increase in cost of revenue in the first quarter of 2018 is partially a result of the increase in revenue and partially due to $2.2 million of additional non-recurring royalty expense for which there was no corresponding revenue item in the period in accordance with ASC 606.
As a percentage of sales, cost of revenue, excluding amortization of acquired technology, was 22.0% and 16.7% of total revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The portion of cost of revenue consisting of amortization of acquired technology was unchanged at $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Marketing and selling expense was $20.1 million and $21.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, a decrease of $1.1 million, or 5.5%, mainly due to lower personnel expenses.
Research and development expense was $9.4 million and $9.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, a decrease of $0.1 million, or 1.2%.
General and administrative expense increased $4.8 million, or 43.6%, to $15.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $10.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Personnel and personnel related expenses increased $1.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in 2017, the result of increased headcount mainly from key hiring during the second half of 2017 and annual salary increases.
Amortization of other intangible assets was unchanged at $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Interest expense, net of interest income was $0.7 million and $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, an increase of $0.1 million, or 15.4%, mainly due to borrowings under our revolving line of credit.
Loss on derivatives was a loss of $0.1 million in the first quarter of 2018, as compared to a loss of $54 thousand in the three months ended March 31, 2017, the net result of changes in the market value of our 30-day forward currency derivative contracts.
•   Foreign rate differential increased our effective rate 33.8% in the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to a decrease of 3.8% in the same period in 2017, due to changes in tax treatment of foreign earnings under The Act. These changes include significant new limitations on the ability to utilize foreign tax credits, and the effects of the new Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI) provisions.
•   Non-deductible expenses added 8.2% to the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to 20.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to changes in the deductibility of officers compensation under The Act, partially offset by the reduction in the statutory rate and a decrease in non-deductible acquisition-related compensation expense for the period.
We generated $7.5 million in cash from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Net loss, after adjusting for depreciation and amortization, loss on retirement of assets, amortization of deferred financing costs, accreted interest, stock based compensation, provision for doubtful accounts, deferred income taxes, and unrealized currency gain on foreign denominated intercompany transactions generated $1.4 million in cash.
Decreased accrued expenses offset by increased accounts payable used $2.7 million in cash, primarily a result of the payment of 2017 accrued variable compensation.
Increased deferred revenue and decreased accounts receivable generated $10.8 million in cash as a result of customer payments received in Q1, net of an increase in unbilled receivables due to the adoption of ASC 606.
We generated $5.6 million in cash from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Net loss, after adjusting for depreciation and amortization, amortization of deferred financing costs, accreted interest, stock based compensation, provision for doubtful accounts, deferred income taxes, and unrealized currency gain on foreign denominated intercompany transactions generated $5.4 million in cash.
Decreased accrued expenses and accounts payable used $4.5 million in cash, primarily a result of the payment of 2016 accrued variable compensation.
Increased deferred revenue and decreased accounts receivable, offset by increased prepaid expenses generated $5.3 million in cash, mainly due to timing.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we used $1.6 million in investing activities for the purchase of $1.4 million of property and equipment and $0.2 million for acquisition of intangible assets.
Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $6.3 million.
Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $8.4 million.
We also purchased $0.7 million of treasury stock and paid $0.5 million in employee taxes on shares withheld in the three months ended March 31, 2017.
This non-GAAP measure is net adjusted EBITDA, which is defined as income (loss) from operations before depreciation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock based compensation expense and acquisition-related compensation.


item3.txt
Deposits of cash held outside the United States totaled approximately $26.1 million and $24.3 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue.
In accordance with ASC Topic No. 830, Foreign Currency Matters, or ASC 830, all assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is a currency other than U.S. dollars are translated into U.S. dollars at an exchange rate as of the balance sheet date.
Revenue and expenses of these subsidiaries are translated at the average monthly exchange rates.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, revenue from customers outside the United States, particularly EMEA and Japan, comprised 56.2% and 55.0%, respectively, of our total revenue.
An effect of a 10% strengthening of the British pound sterling, the Euro Japanese yen and the Argentine peso, relative to the U.S. dollar, would have decreased our revenues by $2.0 million, decreased expenses by $2.4 million and increased operating income by $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures  
Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2018, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of such date, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.


part2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
Exhibits  
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the exhibits are filed as part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and such Exhibit Index is incorporated herein by reference.
Listed and indexed below are all exhibits filed as part of this report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


