fls.txt
For a more detailed discussion of these factors see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of our most recent Form 10-K.


item1.txt
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 9 million and 5 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance that allowed us to apply prior conclusions related to lease definition, classification and initial direct costs.
Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of having been incurred.
This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted beginning January 1, 2019, and must be applied on a modified retrospective basis.
We did not recognize any credit losses related to available-for-sale investments for the first three months of 2019 and 2018.


item2.txt
A strong foundation of manufacturing and technology.
To strengthen this advantage, we are planning our next phase of 300-millimeter capacity expansion as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth.
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash and return that cash to shareholders.
See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 2% and Embedded Processing declined 14% from the same quarter a year ago.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.2 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Information concerning our risk factors is contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, and is incorporated by reference herein.
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $6.0 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 21, 2017.


