fls.txt



item1.txt
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
Revenue from products shipped into China, including Hong Kong, was $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion in the three months ended March 31, 2018, and March 31, 2017, respectively.
Transfer of control occurs at that point, when title and risk of loss transfers and the customer or distributor becomes obligated to pay for the products pulled from inventory.
These allowances, which are not material, generally include adjustments for pricing arrangements, product returns and incentives.
When collection is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made.
We recognize shipping fees, if any, received from customers in revenue.
The majority of our customers pay these fees directly to third parties.
Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to receive dividends or dividend equivalents, such as our restricted stock units (RSUs), are considered to be participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating EPS.
Under the two-class method, a portion of Net income is allocated to these participating securities and, therefore, is excluded from the calculation of EPS allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 5 million and 6 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share for these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.
The time frame between when the customer places an order for products and when it is shipped is less than 12 months.


item2.txt
300-millimeter wafers will support the majority of our Analog growth going forward.
Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash, and return that cash to shareholders.
See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments.
Revenue increased 11 percent from the same quarter a year ago.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Information concerning our risk factors is contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and is incorporated by reference herein.
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $7.5 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 17, 2015.


