fls.txt



item1.txt
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.
The estimated fair value is measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs.
2016-02, Leases (ASC 842) effective January 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective transition method applied to leases existing at, or entered into after, the adoption date.


item2.txt
To strengthen this advantage, we are planning our next phase of 300-millimeter capacity expansion as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth.
•Broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing semiconductors.
Our customers need multiple chips for their systems.
Together, the attributes above result in diverse and long-lived positions that deliver high terminal value to our shareholders.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash and return that cash to shareholders.
See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
Our third quarter revenue was $3.77 billion, net income was $1.43 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.49.
Revenue decreased 11% from the same quarter a year ago, as most markets weakened further.
In our core businesses, Analog revenue declined 8% and Embedded Processing declined 19% from the same quarter a year ago.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.0 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was $6.0 billion and 41% of revenue.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter.
3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated April 18, 1985, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) of the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014).
3(b)By-Laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 12, 2016).


