References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. 
References to our Form 10-K made throughout this document refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 as filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017. 
Overview 
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima. Prior to this transaction, we sold streaming, video processing and storage products and services to media service providers to support consumer-facing video applications including live broadcast video, video-on-demand and time-shifted television services such as cloud-based digital video recording. 
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business to the RT Purchaser. The Real-Time business provided real-time Linux operating system variants, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services. Prior to the sale, we sold our Real-Time business products to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world. 
Having divested both our Real-Time and Content Delivery businesses, we are now in the process of evaluating opportunities intended to maximize the value of our remaining assets, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, escrow funds receivable, and approximately $ 56 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards. This process includes the evaluation of opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses intended to provide appreciation in value, thereby enhancing the Company’s liquidity, and potentially allowing us greater ability to utilize existing net operating loss carryforwards. If the Investment Committee is unable to identify a suitable acquisition target that is appropriately valued, we may consider alternatives for returning capital to stockholders while we wind up our affairs. If we wind up our affairs and liquidate under applicable law, our net operating loss carryforwards will be forfeited. Our operating expenses during this evaluation period are limited to the cost of three employees, supported by former employees providing IT and accounting support under a transition services agreement with Vecima, audit and tax fees, legal fees, board of directors’ fees, fees to third parties engaged to find suitable investment targets, and various other expenses associated with maintaining our public filings. 
Pursuant to the Escrow Agreement we entered into with Vecima on December 15, 2017, we received $29.02 million on the December 31, 2017 closing date, based upon the agreed upon sale price, which included $1.47 million for previously estimated working capital expected to transfer to Vecima above an agreed upon working capital target. Under the CDN APA, we may receive additional consideration, or be required to return a portion of the consideration received on the closing date based on a final determination of the business’ net working capital as of the closing date. Pursuant to our Escrow Agreement with Vecima, $1.45 million of the purchase price (not included above) will be held by SunTrust Bank as security for our indemnification obligations to Vecima under the CDN APA, which amount will be released to us on or before December 31, 2018 (less any portion used to make indemnification payments to Vecima). 
The closing of the sale of the Content Delivery business to Vecima resulted in a “change in control” under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan. As a result, we have recognized the acceleration of the vesting and the lapse of restrictions on all restricted stock granted under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan and payment of any associated accrued dividends in connection with the consummation of the sale of the Content Delivery business to Vecima. 
On December 31, 2017 we entered into a Separation and Consulting Agreement and General Release of Claims with Derek Elder, whereby Mr. Elder’s role as president and chief executive officer of the Company terminated and he ceased to be a member of our Board of Directors and all committees thereof, effective on December 31, 2017. Mr. Elder’s separation from the Company did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies or practices. In addition, as described more fully in Item 1, Section 12 herein, on December 31, 2017, an independent member of our Board of Directors, Robert Pons, tendered his resignation from the Board of Directors and all committees thereof. Mr. Pons’ resignation from the Board of Directors did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies or practices. 
On January 2, 2018, we changed our Company name to “CCUR Holdings, Inc.” We currently trade on the Nasdaq stock market under the same “CCUR” symbol and have launched a new website located at www.ccurholdings.com. 
On February 8, 2018, the Board of Directors appointed Mr. David Nicol as a new board member and appointed Mr. Nicol as Audit Committee Chairman, and Audit Committee Financial Expert, replacing Wayne Barr, Jr. in those positions, and as a member of the Compensation and Nominating committees. Mr. Nicol is a seasoned Board Director and advisor for technology-based businesses who currently serves on three other boards, two privately held and one public, the latter for which he chairs both Audit and Compensation Committees. Mr. Nicol is an active member of the National Association of Corporate Directors and Financial Executives International. 
Results of Operations for the Three months ended December 31, 2017 Compared to the Three months ended December 31, 2016 
General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses were $3.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, an increase of $2.4 million, or 160.7%, from $1.5 million for the prior year period. This increase was primarily due to (1) $1.8 million in share-based compensation expenses resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted share awards due to the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 (2) $0.9 million in severance related to our former CEO and another employee, and (3) $0.5 million in bonuses related to the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business. These cost increases were partially offset by $0.4 million lower legal fees related to prior year share-holder activism activity and $0.2 million of prior year strategic costs, as well as $0.2 million less in salaries wages and benefits resulting from efforts to reduce our operating costs. Following the close of the Content Delivery business during the three months ended December 31, 2017, which generated the aforementioned one-time transaction costs, we anticipate our operating expenses to be significantly lower in remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2018. We have reduced our staff to minimal levels while we look for strategic investment opportunities. 
Loss from Continuing Operations. Our loss from continuing operations for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $2.8 million, or $0.30 loss per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2016 of $1.5 million, or $0.16 loss per basic and diluted share. 
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. We sold our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 and our Real-Time business in May 2017. As a result, the $22.7 million of income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes includes a $22.6 gain on the sale of our Content Delivery business during the three months ended December 31, 2017. 
Results of Operations for the Six months ended December 31, 2017 Compared to the Six months ended December 31, 2016 
General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses were $5.3 million for the six months ended December 31, 2017, an increase of $2.4 million, or 79.6%, from $3.0 million for the prior year period. This increase was primarily due to (1) $1.8 million in share-based compensation expenses resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted share awards due to the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 (2) $0.9 million in severance related to our former CEO and another employee, and (3) $0.5 million in bonuses related to the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business. These cost increases were partially offset by $0.4 million lower legal fees related to prior year share-holder activism activity and $0.2 million of prior year strategic costs, as well as $0.3 million less in salaries wages and benefits resulting from efforts to reduce our operating costs. Following the close of the Content Delivery business during the six months ended December 31, 2017, which generated the aforementioned one-time transaction costs, we anticipate our operating expenses to be significantly lower in remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2018. We have reduced our staff to minimal levels while we look for strategic investment opportunities. 
Loss from Continuing Operations. Our loss from continuing operations for the six months ended December 31, 2017 was $4.2 million, or $0.45 loss per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss for the six months ended December 31, 2016 of $3.0 million, or $0.32 loss per basic and diluted share. 
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. We sold our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 and our Real-Time business in May 2017. As a result, the $23.0 million of income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes includes a $22.6 gain on the sale of our Content Delivery business during the three months ended December 31, 2017. 
 ·our future access to capital; 
 ·our exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives; 
 ·the number of countries in which we operate, which may require maintenance of minimum cash levels in each country and, in certain cases, may restrict the repatriation of cash, by requiring us to maintain levels of capital; 
 ·the use of cash to dividends; 
 ·maintaining our listing on the Nasdaq stock market; and 
 ·potential liquidation of the company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation. 
We used $3.6 million and generated $1.6 million of cash from operating activities during the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Operating cash flows during the six months ending December 31, 2017 were primarily attributable the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous quarter’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business, inventory purchases and accrued compensation. Operating cash flows during the six months ended December 31, 2016 were primarily attributable to the collection of accounts receivable for sales shipped late in the prior year, offset by the current period net loss and the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous year’s inventory purchase and other obligations. 
We had maturities of $8.9 million of previously invested short-term investments and reinvested $10.0 million in short-term investments during the six months ended December 31, 2017. We moved cash to these short-term investments in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017 so that we may earn a higher return than we had previously earned with our cash and cash equivalent balances. Our short-term investments consist of highly liquid commercial paper and U.S. Treasury bills and have original maturities of more than 3 months but no more than 12 months. We plan to invest the proceeds from the sale of our Content Delivery business in additional short-term investments to improve our return on invested funds. 
We paid two quarterly cash dividends, each for $0.12 per share, during each of the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. During both the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we also paid less than $0.1 million of dividends that had been held as dividends payable from previous declarations to restricted stockholders for whom restrictions lapsed during each period. In January 2018, as a result of the acceleration of vesting of substantially all of our previously unvested restricted stock triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business, we paid $346 of previously accrued dividends in January 2018. In the six months ended December 31, 2017, the additional amount paid includes payments of dividends to three of our independent directors who resigned during the period. On October 27, 2017, we announced the Board of Directors’ decision to suspend future dividends after the payment of the December 2017 quarterly dividend while the Board of Directors and the Investment Committee consider potential acquisition targets and alternative uses of our remaining assets. We believe that a portion of our dividends may be treated as a return of capital to stockholders, rather than dividend income, as we believe dividend payments may exceed our cumulative earnings and profits. 
We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $65.0 million and $65.5 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at December 31, 2017, compared to working capital of $45.3 million and $42.3 million cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at June 30, 2017. At December 31, 2017, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. 
As of December 31, 2017, approximately $0.1 million, or less than 1% of our cash is in foreign accounts and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months. Based upon our existing cash balances and short-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. 
We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2017. 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
Recent Accounting Guidance 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
