Part II - Other Information 
We are not presently involved in any material litigation. However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. 
Item 1A. Risk Factors 
On March 5, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to 1 million shares of the Company’s common stock. Repurchases will be made at the discretion of management through open market or privately negotiated transactions or any combination of the same. To the extent the Company engages in stock repurchases, such activity is subject to market conditions, such as the trading prices for our stock, as well as the terms of any stock purchase plans intended to comply with Rule 10b5-1 or Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The Board of Directors, in its discretion, may resolve to discontinue stock repurchases at any time. 
We may be subject to lawsuits relating to Section 16 of the Exchange Act based on certain transactions in our common stock and derivative securities referencing our common stock. 
In the past, our largest stockholder, JDS1, LLC has disgorged “short-swing” profits to the Company, which is a term that describes certain profits of Section 16 reporting persons realized from transactions in common stock or derivative securities during a specified time period that are subject to disgorgement under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. The Company continuously reviews transactions by JDS1, LLC (and other Section 16 reporting persons to the extent such transactions occur) in our common stock and derivative securities referencing our common stock for additional transactions that may be subject to Section 16 and require disgorgement. We have received letters from lawyers purporting to represent stockholders of the Company regarding additional transactions of JDS1, LLC. Our Board of Directors has established a special committee consisting of directors David Nicol and Dilip Singh to review whether any additional amounts are subject to disgorgement from JDS1, LLC under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and to oversee recovery of any such amounts. While the Company has taken the steps described above to address transactions of Section 16 reporting persons, there can be no assurance that related litigation will not arise, including litigation initiated by the stockholders that have contacted the Company regarding these transactions. Any related litigation that arises may require the Company to expend significant financial and managerial resources. 
Equity Price Risk 
We are exposed to market risk primarily through changes in fair value of available-for-sale fixed maturity and equity securities in which the Company invests. We follow an investment strategy approved by our Board of Directors’ Investment Committee which sets certain restrictions on the amount of securities that we may acquire and our overall investment strategy. 
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
c. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and affiliated purchasers. 
 (1)On January 2, 2018, the Company purchased 41,566 shares from certain employees whose shares vested due to the change in control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017. The repurchase of shares was approved by the Board of Directors on a one-time basis to facilitate employees’ payment of payroll withholding taxes due upon vesting of the shares. Shares were repurchased from employees only to the extent required to fund minimum required withholding taxes based on the closing price nearest to the December 31, 2017 vest date. Section 16 officers were prohibited from participating in this employee share repurchase. 
From April 1 through May 3, 2018, we repurchased an additional 354,336 shares of our common stock, bringing the total shares repurchased this fiscal year to 708,426 at average of $5.12 (of which 666,860 shares were repurchased under the stock repurchase plan described in footnote 2 above). 
 Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities 
None. 
 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures 
None. 
 †Indicates management contract or compensatory plan.  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
     Warren Sutherland 
     Chief Financial Officer 
     (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  
Exhibit Index 
 †Indicates management contract or compensatory plan.  
