Part II - Other Information 
We are not presently involved in any material litigation. However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. 
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, which acquisition currently is under a non-binding letter of intent. If we do not complete this acquisition, we will have expended significant expenses and management resources without our shareholders realizing the potential benefits. 
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark as discussed under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark. Our acquisition of such interest is subject to us negotiating and executing with LuxeMark a mutually acceptable definitive and binding purchase agreement with respect to the business, which we expect will contain a number of conditions to closing the acquisition, including (i) our completion of satisfactory due diligence with respect to LuxeMark’s business, and (ii) satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, dependent on the results of due diligence and negotiation of the definitive documents between the parties, may require material modifications to the terms set forth in the letter of intent. There can be no assurance that LuxeMark will be willing to proceed with a transaction, that we will be able to negotiate and execute a satisfactory definitive purchase agreement with LuxeMark, that our due diligence will be satisfactory, or that the conditions to closing will be satisfied. 
We participate in the MCA industry, which presents a number of unique risks. 
In December 2018, we acquired certain advance assets from an MCA originator and funder that is a leader in the MCA sector. An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts. This type of transaction is not characterized or structured as a loan. Small businesses typically seek these advances for working capital purposes to finance their purchase of inventory, equipment, or to otherwise address immediate business needs. This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions. 
Real estate assets are relatively illiquid. A variety of factors could make it difficult for us to modify our real estate portfolio in response to changing economic or other relevant conditions, thus creating risk of loss associated with those changed conditions. In addition, we may seek to restrict the percentage of our assets that are contained in illiquid real estate assets by seeking financing to continue expansion of our real estate operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan and invest in other value producing assets, including acquisition of additional businesses and assets. In addition, reserving a certain percentage of our liquid assets may benefit our financial performance by increasing our ability to modify our operations to respond to adverse economic or other relevant conditions. Any financing that we obtain creates risks normally associated with financing, including the risk that our cash flow is insufficient to make timely payments of interest or principal. 
We may engage in real estate transactions or other strategic opportunities that involve property types or structures with which we have less familiarity, thereby increasing our risk of loss. 
We may be limited in the types of acquisitions that we can pursue in order to preserve use of our NOLs. 
We currently have NOLs valued at $56.1 million as of June 30, 2018. We may be able to achieve greater realization of the value of our NOLs with certain business or asset acquisitions. There is no guarantee that we will be able to find or consummate an acquisition that allows for utilization of our NOLs and we may engage in acquisitions that do not facilitate use of the NOLs. In any acquisition we may be limited by our available cash and cash equivalents or ability to obtain financing in order to preserve use of our NOLs. Use of our NOLs can be impaired by certain shift in the ownership of our common stock and thus we are limited in our ability to use stock in an acquisition for NOL preservation purposes. Alternatively, while we have not identified or committed to any such transactions, we may identify acquisitions that we believe will provide value sufficient to forego preservation of the NOLs to participate in the acquisition opportunity. 
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
