Overview 
The Company began developing its real estate operations during the second half of fiscal year 2018. Since commencing our real estate operations, we have made several commercial loans secured by real property. Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, access to a consistent volume of attractive real estate transactions, and management’s experience in the real estate industry, we created Recur, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Recur currently provides commercial loans to local, regional, and national builders, developers, and commercial landowners and is also acquiring, owning, and managing a portfolio of real property for development. Recur does not provide consumer mortgages. 
In February 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LMCS, we acquired the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (the “LuxeMark Acquisition”). Pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, the Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“Old LuxeMark”). Through LMCS, doing business as “LuxeMark Capital,” we manage a connected network of MCA originators and syndicate participants who provide those originators with capital by purchasing participation interests or co-funding MCA transactions. In addition, we provide loans to MCA originators, the proceeds of which are used by the MCA originators to fund MCAs themselves. LMCS’ daily operations are led by the three principals of Old LuxeMark. CCUR provides accounting and legal support to LMCS. 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
We recognize revenue in accordance with the appropriate accounting guidance as described in our critical accounting policies. See the section titled “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2019. MCA revenue includes income from the discount at which we provide advances on future merchant receivables, as well as fees earned for sourcing both syndication capital and merchant leads for MCA funders. We generate revenue from interest on loans by entering into commercial loan agreements to fund third party funders in the MCA industry and real estate industry. 
Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of commissions, travel, employee salaries, benefits, and consulting fees. 
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits, overhead, management travel, administrative personnel, rent, information systems, insurance, accounting, legal services, board of director fees and expenses, and other professional services. 
Other interest income is earned on cash overnight sweep accounts and money market deposits, as well as investments in debt securities. Interest income also includes accretion of discounts for which we purchased debt securities whereby such discount is amortized over the term of the debt security to its commitment value that will be due on the maturity date, as well as early repayment. Additionally, we earn payment-in-kind (“ PIK”) interest from one of our debt securities whereby interest is paid in the form of an increase in the commitment value due from the debt security issuer on the maturity date. 
Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 in Comparison to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 
Consolidated Results. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we generated $1.7 million of total revenue, compared to $0.1 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2018, driven largely by the growth in our participation in the MCA industry. Our net income for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 increased to $3.5 million, compared to a loss of $3.0 thousand in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. This increase was attributable largely to an increase in our income before income tax driven by our MCA operations and our investments in certain debt and equity securities. 
MCA Operations Segment Results. In December 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by indirectly advancing funds to merchants through third-party originators. We generated $1.7 million of revenue from MCA operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0 in the during the three months ended September 30, 2018. Of that revenue, $0.8 million of revenue came from MCAs and $0.6 million of revenue was generated from syndication fee revenue from sourcing syndication capital and merchant leads for the MCA industry. 
Real Estate Operations Revenues. We generated $0.1 million of revenue from real estate operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018. 
General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses were $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, a $0.2 million, or 23%, increase from the three months ended September 30, 2018. Salaries attributable to our MCA operations accounted for $0.1 million of the increase, as we did not have MCA operations in the prior year period. The remaining $0.1 million increase was due to corporate salaries from additional headcount and financial performance bonuses accrued during the three months ended September 30, 2019. 
Provision for Credit Losses on Advances. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, $0.2 million was provided for losses, based on the dollar amount of new MCAs that we entered into and mix of funders who we funded through. We did not record a provision for credit losses during the three months ended September 30, 2018 because we did not fund any MCAs during that period. 
Other interest income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased by $1.3 million, or 142.8%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, due to higher yields on incremental investments in debt securities since September 30, 2019 and accretion of any discounts on these securities. 
Dividend Income. Dividend income decreased by $43 thousand during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to our sale of some of our dividend yielding equity securities since September 30, 2018. 
Realized Gain on Investments, net. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we sold investments in certain equity securities for which we recognized $1.1 million of net realized gains, as compared to $0.2 million of realized gains on the sale of certain equity and debt securities during the same period in the prior year. 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities 
We generated $0.5 million and used $0.1 million of cash for operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Operating cash generated during the three months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily attributable to positive net income, adjusted for non-cash items, partially offset by timing of collection of interest income. Operating cash usage during the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to operating costs during the period exceeding cash generating income, as approximately $0.5 million of our income for the period was from non-cash accretion and PIK interest. 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities 
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 we generated $0.1 million of cash, net, from investing activities. Our net cash inflows were primarily driven by collecting more merchant payments than we redeployed to fund advances to merchants, resulting in $1.6 million of net cash inflows from MCAs during the period. Additionally, we generated net cash from debt and equity securities as we liquidated $0.8 million more in debt and equity securities than we invested during the three months ended September 30, 2019. Partially offsetting the net cash inflows from MCAs, debt and equity securities, we funded $2.0 million more in mortgage and commercial loans than we collected during the period, primarily attributable to new loans that we made to funders in the MCA industry. Remaining investing cash outflows during the three months ended September 30, 2019 resulted from our purchase of land parcels for development and resale. 
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we originated $1.8 million of short-term mortgage loans through Recur, of which $1.4 million was on deposit with an escrow agent at the end of the prior fiscal year. Additionally, we provided a $2.0 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee. Our remaining investing activities consisted of $1.6 million in purchases and $6.2 million in maturities or sales of debt and equity securities for the purpose of funding our operating expenses as we continued to evolve our real estate operating business and actively search for additional operating businesses to acquire. 
Liquidity 
We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $49.4 million at September 30, 2019, compared to working capital of $48.8 million at June 30, 2019. At September 30, 2019, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. 
As of September 30, 2019, less than 0.1% of our cash was in foreign accounts, and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months. Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities, and available-for-sale investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report. 
We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2019. 
Recent Accounting Guidance 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
None. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
