Item 1. Financial Statements 
CCUR Holdings, Inc.  
Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) 
CCUR Holdings, Inc. 
Consolidated STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) 
ccur holdings, inc. 
ccur holdings, inc. 
 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation  
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018. 
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services. These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world. 
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media. 
In fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other things, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property. Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC, we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. 
Smaller Reporting Company 
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies. 
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities 
We determine the appropriate classification of investments in debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such determinations at each balance sheet date. Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost. Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings. Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity. 
In some cases, our debt investments may provide for a portion of the interest payable to be payment-in-kind (“PIK”) interest. To the extent interest is PIK, it is payable through the increase of the principal amount of the loan by the amount of the interest due on the then-outstanding principal amount of the loan. 
Commercial and Mortgage Loans and Loan Losses 
We have the intent and ability to hold these loans to maturity or payoff and as such, have classified these loans as held-for-investment. These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs. As of December 31, 2018, we have not recorded any charge-offs, and believe that an allowance for loan losses is not required. 
Advances Receivable 
In December 2018, we began purchasing participation interests in Merchant Cash Advances (“MCAs”) from a third party whose principal activity is originating MCAs to small businesses. MCAs are contracts formed through a future receivables or receipts purchase and sale agreement, which stipulates the purchase price, or the amount advanced, and the specified amount, or the advance amount plus the factored receivable balance the Company will be repaid, on the face of the contract. Generally, a specified amount will be withdrawn from the merchant’s bank account via daily or weekly ACH in order to pay down the merchant’s advance. These are not consumer loan contracts, nor are they installment loan contracts to businesses for business use only. In addition, there is no monthly minimum payment, nor is there a specific repayment schedule. 
Other Advances Receivable 
During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business. The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of merchant cash advance income within the statement of operations. Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary. As of December 31, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired. 
Revenue Recognition 
We generate revenue primarily from interest earned on commercial mortgage and other loans that yield interest, and also from fees earned on MCAs. Loan origination fees are deferred and recognized over the expected term of the loan. The revenue generated from MCAs is primarily factor income. The factor income represents the amount of the purchased receivables in excess of the funded contract amount advanced to the merchant in accordance with the merchant agreement net of amounts related to participations. Factor income on merchant advance receivables is earned and recognized ratably as receivables are collected, at factor rates stipulated in the client funding agreement from the date of purchase through the date the receivables are collected or ceases accruing factor revenue when the receivable is identified as uncollectible. 
Basic and Diluted (Loss) Earnings per Share 
Basic (loss) earnings per share is computed by dividing (loss) income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year. Diluted (loss) earnings per share is computed by dividing (loss) income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents. Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation. Due to the loss from continuing operations for both periods presented, weighted average common share equivalents of 10,937 and 315,771 for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and weighted average common share equivalents of 13,420 and 322,570 for the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. 
 ·Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
 ·Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable; and 
 ·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.  
The carrying amounts of certain financial instruments, including cash equivalents and MCAs, approximate their fair values due to their short-term nature. 
Content Delivery Business 
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of the Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital). The sale included our Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary. 
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Operating expenses recorded in discontinued operations include costs incurred directly in support of the Content Delivery business. 
Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Investments 
The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale as of December 31, 2018 are shown by contractual maturity in the table below. Actual maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. 
 5.Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Receivable  
We also had a $1,400 deposit held by an escrow agent as of June 30, 2018 for a mortgage loan that was consummated subsequent to our June 30, 2018 fiscal year end. 
Net Operating Losses 
As of June 30, 2018, we had state NOLs of $33,240. The state NOLs expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2037. 
Deferred Tax Assets and Related Valuation Allowances 
Research and Development Tax Credits 
Unrecognized Tax Benefits 
We have evaluated our unrecognized tax benefits and determined that there has not been a material change in the amount of such benefits for the three months and six months ended December 31, 2018. 
 10.Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses  
 11.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss  
Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements with the chief financial officer and legal counsel, employment may be terminated by either the respective employee or us at any time. In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause, or in certain circumstances terminates constructively or expires, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from six to 12 months, depending on the employee, and bonus severance. Additionally, if terminated, our chief financial officer will be entitled to COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan for the 12-month period following termination. At December 31, 2018, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements was $491. 
Release of Content Delivery Business Sale Proceeds from Escrow 
As a condition of the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima on December 31, 2017, $1,450 of the purchase price proceeds were placed in escrow as security for our indemnification obligations to Vecima under the CDN APA, through December 31, 2018, with any portion used to reimburse Vecima for indemnification payments deducted from the escrow balance. On January 2, 2019, the full $1,450 was released from escrow and transferred to our bank account. 
We are not presently involved in any material litigation. However, we are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. 
 Item 1A.Risk Factors   
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark as discussed under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark. Our acquisition of such interest is subject to us negotiating and executing with LuxeMark a mutually acceptable definitive and binding purchase agreement with respect to the business, which we expect will contain a number of conditions to closing the acquisition, including (i) our completion of satisfactory due diligence with respect to LuxeMark’s business, and (ii) satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, dependent on the results of due diligence and negotiation of the definitive documents between the parties, may require material modifications to the terms set forth in the letter of intent. There can be no assurance that LuxeMark will be willing to proceed with a transaction, that we will be able to negotiate and execute a satisfactory definitive purchase agreement with LuxeMark, that our due diligence will be satisfactory, or that the conditions to closing will be satisfied. 
We participate in the MCA industry, which presents a number of unique risks. 
In December 2018, we acquired certain advance assets from an MCA originator and funder that is a leader in the MCA sector. An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts. This type of transaction is not characterized or structured as a loan. Small businesses typically seek these advances for working capital purposes to finance their purchase of inventory, equipment, or to otherwise address immediate business needs. This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions. 
