CCUR Holdings, Inc. (formerly Concurrent Computer Corporation) 
CCUR Holdings, Inc. 
ccur holdings, inc. 
ccur holdings, inc. 
ccur holdings, inc. 
 1.Overview of Business and Basis of Presentation 
References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018. 
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media assets and served industries and customers that demand uncompromising performance, reliability and flexibility to gain a competitive edge, drive meaningful growth and confidently deliver best-in-class solutions that enrich the lives of millions of people around the world every day. Content delivery solutions consisted of software, hardware and services for intelligently streaming video content to a variety of consumer devices and storing and managing content in the network. These streaming video and storage products and services are deployed by service providers to support consumer-facing video applications including live broadcast video, video-on-demand and time-shifted video services such as cloud-based digital video recording. In fiscal year 2016, the Company introduced Aquari™ Storage, a unified scale-out storage solutions product that is ideally suited for a wide range of enterprise IT and video applications that require advanced performance, very large storage capacities, and a high degree of reliability. 
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services. These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world. 
We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”). ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-to-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Clarification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (“ASU 2016-15”), which eliminates the diversity in practice related to the classification of certain cash receipts and payments in the statement of cash flows, by adding or clarifying guidance on eight specific cash flow issues. ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The amendments in this update should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented, unless deemed impracticable, in which case, prospective application is permitted. We do not expect ASU 2016-15 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or disclosures. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01 - Business Combinations (Topic 805) (“ASU 2017-01”), which clarifies the definition of a business. For accounting and financial reporting purposes, businesses are generally comprised of three elements; inputs, processes, and outputs. Integrated sets of assets and activities capable of providing these three elements may not always be considered a business, and the lack of one of the three elements does not always disqualify the set from being a business. The issuance of ASU 2017-01 provides a clarifying screen to determine when a set of assets and activities is not a business. Primarily, the screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business. The amendments contained in ASU 2017-01 are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and may be early adopted for certain transactions that have occurred before the effective date, but only when the underlying transaction has not been reported in the financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance. We do not expect ASU 2017-01 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or disclosures. 
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of shares, including dilutive common share equivalents outstanding during each period. Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation. Due to the loss from continuing operations for all periods presented, common share equivalents of 315,771 and 267,481 for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and common share equivalents of 322,570 and 265,845 for the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively,were excluded from the calculation as their effect was anti-dilutive. 
As noted above, on December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima (the “CDN APA”) for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital). The sale included our Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary. 
Additionally, we may receive additional consideration, or be required to return a portion of the consideration received on the closing date, based on a final determination of the Content Delivery business’ net working capital as of the closing date. This final calculation is required to be presented to us by Vecima no later than March 31, 2018 and we have 30 days after its receipt to agree with or contest those calculations. Subsequent to December 31, 2017, based on our estimate of the working capital of the Content Delivery business as of the closing date, calculated in accordance with the procedures set forth in the CDN APA, we have accrued our estimate of the final post-closing working capital adjustment within our current liabilities on our December 31, 2017 balance sheet, to be paid by us to Vecima during the latter half of our fiscal year 2018. In addition, we have reduced our estimate of the gain on the sale of the Content Delivery business by the amount of the estimated final post-closing working capital adjustment payment. 
In conjunction with the CDN APA, we and Vecima entered into Transition Services Agreements (the “CDN TSA”) for the U.S. Under the CDN TSA, we and Vecima have each agreed to provide and receive various services to and from the other party on an arms-length, fee-for-service basis for a term of twelve months as of the date of the closing, unless terminated earlier by either party. 
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Operating expenses recorded in discontinued operations include costs incurred directly in support of the Content Delivery business. 
The closing of the sale of the assets to Vecima resulted in a “change in control” under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan. As a result, the Company recognized expense of approximately $1,745 in share-based compensation expense due to the acceleration of the vesting and the lapse of restrictions on substantially all restricted stock granted under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (see Note 7 – Share-based Compensation). This expense is reflected in general and administrative expenses of continuing operations in our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017. Payment of associated accrued dividends related to these released shares was made in January 2018. 
Transaction costs directly associated with the sale of the Content Delivery business include legal, accounting, investment banking and other fees paid to external parties. 
In connection with the sale of our Content Delivery business (1) we entered into a Separation and Consulting Agreement and General Release of Claims with Derek Elder, our former President and Chief Executive Officer, as a result of which (A) Mr. Elder’s role as president and chief executive officer was terminated, (B) Mr. Elder ceased to be a member of our Board of Directors and all committees thereof, and (C) we recorded severance related expenses of $544 pursuant to his Separation and Consulting Agreement (see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies – Separation of Chief Executive Officer), (2) we terminated the employment of another executive of the Company and recorded severance expenses of $132, (3) we paid transaction bonuses that had previously been approved by our compensation committee of $479 to internal executives and staff and (4) we accepted the resignation of an independent director of the Company (see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies – Resignation of Directors). All of the above expenses are included in general and administrative expenses of continuing operations in our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three and six months ended December 31, 2017. 
On May 15, 2017, we completed the sale and transfer of certain assets and certain liabilities primarily related to our Real-Time business pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “RT APA”) dated as of May 15, 2017 with Real Time, Inc. (the “RT Purchaser”), an investment company owned by Battery Ventures, a private-equity firm based in Boston, Massachusetts, for $35,000 less agreed upon adjustments for working capital. Pursuant to the terms of the RT APA, we sold and transferred certain respective equity interests in one of our subsidiaries, which constituted the European operations of the Real-Time business, upon receipt of French regulatory approval on May 30, 2017. The RT APA includes customary terms and conditions, including provisions following closing that require us to indemnify the Purchaser for certain losses that it incurs as a result of a breach by us of our representations and warranties in the RT APA and certain other matters. 
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. 
Our investment portfolio consists of money market funds, U.S. Treasury bills, repurchase agreements and domestic and international commercial paper. Our investment portfolio has an average maturity of three months or less and no investments within the portfolio have an original maturity of one year or more. All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents. All cash equivalents are carried at cost less any unamortized premium or discount, which approximates fair value. All investments with original maturities of more than three months are classified as short-term investments. Our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. Interest on securities is recorded in interest income. Any realized gains or losses would be shown in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations in other income or expense. We provide fair value measurements disclosures of our available-for-sale securities in accordance with one of the three levels of fair value measurement. We have no financial assets that are measured on a recurring basis that fall within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. 
For both the three and six months ended December 31, 2017, the domestic tax expense is lower than the prior year primarily due to the favorable impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (enacted on December 22, 2017) on the realizability of our alternative minimum tax credits and lower domestic income as compared to the same periods from the prior year. 
As of June 30, 2017, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $71,953 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in fiscal year 2018, and the remainder expire at various dates through fiscal year 2036. As a result of the recognition of a taxable gain on the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017, we utilized approximately $17,203 of our federal NOLs during the six months ended December 31, 2017. Our federal NOLs are projected to be approximately $55,686 as of June 30, 2018. With the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, U.S. federal NOLs generated in taxable years ending after December 31, 2017 will have an indefinite carryforward period. 
In the first quarter of our fiscal 2018, we completed an evaluation of the potential effect of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”) on our ability to utilize these net operating losses. The study concluded that we have not had an ownership change for the period from July 22, 1993 to June 30, 2017. If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset. See section below entitled “Tax Asset Preservation Plan” for details regarding steps we have taken to protect the value of our NOLs. 
We also have State NOLs that expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur between fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2036 and foreign NOLs that expire according to the rules of each country. Currently, none of the jurisdictions in which we have foreign NOLs are subject to expiration due to indefinite carryforward periods. 
 1.If analysis of the impact of the new law is completed by the time the financial statements are issued, then the impact should be included in the financial statements. 
 2.If only certain aspects of the new law are completed by the time the financial statements are issued but other aspects and other aspects are incomplete but able to be reasonably estimated, then the registrant should include both the certain aspects and a reasonable estimate of the incomplete aspects in its financial statements. This reasonable estimate should be reported as a “provisional amount” during a “measurement period” not to exceed one year from the date of the enactment of the new law. 
 3.If a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed for certain aspects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to calculate a provisional amount, then no provisional amounts should be in its financial statements.  
At December 31, 2017, consistent with the above processes, we evaluated the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets and determined that it was more likely than not that only our federal alternative minimum tax (“AMT”) tax credits of $1,138 would be realized. The AMT credit represents a provisional amount that will be finalized upon the filing of our federal income tax return for the year ended June 30, 2017. The filing of this return will occur prior to our fiscal year end which is within the measurement period. Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, AMT tax credits will now become refundable in conjunction with the repeal of the corporate AMT. For tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2022, the AMT credit is refundable in an amount equal to 50% (100% for the 2021 tax year) of the excess of the credit for the tax year over the amount of the credit allowable for the year against regular tax liability. This results in the Company receiving its entire AMT credit of $1,138 as a refund no later than fiscal 2022 and as such a valuation allowance is no longer needed for the AMT credit carryforward. However, in accordance with ASC 740, we recognized a valuation allowance against all other net deferred tax asset items at December 31, 2017. 
We have evaluated our unrecognized tax benefits and determined that there has not been a material change in the amount of such benefits for the six months ended December 31, 2017. 
During the year ended June 30, 2017, we applied for both a U.S. federal and state of Georgia research and development tax credit in the amounts of (1) $719 and $675 for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016, respectively, and (2) $575 and $540 for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2017, respectively. For U.S. federal tax purposes, the credit cannot be utilized immediately but will carryforward for a period of 20 years. As we do not expect to be able to realize the benefit of the U.S. federal tax credit carryforward before its expiration, we maintain a full valuation allowance on this item. For the state of Georgia tax credit, we have recorded the credit within both other current assets and other long-term assets with an offset in both accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017. As future payroll tax withholdings of our Georgia-based employees become due, we are able to offset the withholding amount dollar-for-dollar against the credit. As a result, as the credit is claimed, we will (1) reduce other current assets and offset the payroll tax liability and (2) reduce accrued expenses and recognize a reduction of operating expenses. 
During the three and six months ended December 31, 2017, we recognized $123 and $279, respectively, of the state of Georgia credit and reduced operating expenses accordingly. As of December 31, 2017, amounts due from the state of Georgia of $541 and $674 are reflected within other current assets and other long-term assets, respectively, and unrecogized income from these credits of $101 and $667 are reflected in accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities, respectively. 
At our 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on October 26, 2016, our stockholders adopted a formal amendment to our certificate of incorporation (the “Protective Amendment”) to deter any person acquiring 4.9% or more of the outstanding Common Stock without the approval of our Board in order to protect the value of our NOLs. The Protective Amendment was extended by our stockholders at our 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on October 25, 2017 and will expire on the earliest of (i) the Board of Directors’ determination that the Protective Amendment is no longer necessary for the preservation of the Company’s NOLs because of the amendment or repeal of Section 382 or any successor statute, (ii) the close of business on the first day of any taxable year of CCUR Holdings to which the Board of Directors determines that none of our NOLs may be carried forward (iii) such date as the Board of Directors otherwise determines that the Protective Amendment is no longer necessary for the preservation of the Company’s NOLs and (iv) the date of our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held during calendar year 2018. 
As indicated in our Form 8-K filed on October 27, 2017, the Company executed and delivered that certain Consent and Limited Waiver to the Standstill Agreement, filed therewith as Exhibit 10.1 (the “Consent and Limited Waiver”), to JDS1, LLC and Julian Singer (together with their affiliates and associates, the “Investor Group”). The Consent and Limited Waiver provides that so long as (i) the Investor Group collectively beneficially own no more than 24.9% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company and (ii) any acquisition of common stock of the Company by the Investor Group would not reasonably be expected to actually limit the Company’s ability to utilize the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards under applicable United States, state, or foreign tax laws, the Company shall not deem the Investor Group to have effected a Prohibited Transfer as that term is defined in the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation. 
In conjunction with the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 (see Note 4 – Discontinued Operations), substantially all of the previously non-vested restricted stock awards (including 50,000 performance-based restricted stock awards) were accelerated to vest as a result of a change of control as determined by our Board of Directors resulting in share-based compensation expense of $1,745 for the three months ending December 31, 2017. In January 2018, we allowed for the net settlement of certain of these awards for the payment of payroll taxes due to certain employees. Such net settlement resulted in the Company acquiring 41,565 shares of its common stock for $239 held as treasury stock. 
Additionally, one of our independent directors resigned from the Board of Directors, effective on December 31, 2017 (see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies – Resignation of Directors) and we accelerated the vesting of 7,500 shares of previously non-vested restricted stock held by that director. This acceleration of vesting resulted in incremental stock compensation expense of $43 during the three months ended December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, 22,500 restricted stock awards granted to our three remaining independent directors in November 2017 remain outstanding and subject to their original time-based vesting schedule. 
In conjunction with the resignation of three of our independent directors in July 2017 (see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies – Resignation of Directors), we accelerated the vesting of 5,400 shares of restricted stock held by each of the resigning directors. This acceleration of vesting resulted in incremental stock compensation expense of $37 during the six months ended December 31, 2017. 
All remaining share-based compensation expense for the three and six month periods ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 resulted from vesting of shares over their respective vesting periods. 
We maintain a retirement savings plan available to U.S. employees that qualifies as a defined contribution plan under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. We match 50% of the first 5% of the participants’ compensation invested by the employee in the 401(k) plan. We made matching contributions of $5 and $3 during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $13 and $12 during the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 
We contributed $4 and $3 to our German defined benefit pension plans for the three months ending December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $7 for each of the six months ending December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect to make additional, similar, quarterly contributions during the remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2018. 
 9.Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses 
As a result of the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 (see Note 4 – Discontinued Operations) and the acceleration of vesting of substantially all of the previously non-vested restricted stock awards, substantially all of our accrued dividends payable are classified as a currently payable as of December 31, 2017. 
For the six months ended December 31, 2017, $8 of dividends payable were forfeited and returned to capital for restricted shares that were forfeited prior to meeting vesting requirements. Because the participants are not entitled to these dividends unless they complete the requisite service period for the shares to vest, they are not “participating dividends” as defined under ASC Topic 260-10, Earnings per Share. 
Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements with our executive officers and certain other employees, employment may be terminated by either the respective executive officer or us at any time. In the event the employee voluntarily resigns (except as described below) or is terminated for cause, compensation under the employment agreement will end. In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause or in certain circumstances constructively by us, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from 6 to 12 months, depending on the officer, in an annualized amount equal to the respective employee’s base salary then in effect. At December 31, 2017, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements is $247. 
On January 30, 2018, the Company entered into a “First Amendment to Employment Agreement” with its CFO (the “First Amendment”) amending certain terms of the Employment Agreement entered into with its CFO on May 15, 2017. Pursuant to the First Amendment, the CFO’s employment will run through December 31, 2018 unless it is terminated earlier in accordance with the Employment Agreement. In the event of the CFO’s termination without “due cause” (as defined in the Employment Agreement), he will be entitled to receive a severance package consisting of (i) salary continuation payments for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of such termination at his most recent salary rate, (ii) the amount, if any, paid as an annual bonus in the year preceding termination, and (iii) COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan and for the 12-month period following termination, he and his eligible dependents at the time of termination will be eligible to continue coverage at the same premium charged to active employees. 
As a part of the First Amendment, the Company acknowledged the occurrence of a “change of control” (as defined in the Company’s 2011 Stock Incentive Plan) on December 31, 2017. Pursuant to the First Amendment, if within one year after a “change of control” the CFO’s employment is terminated by the Company (other than for Due Cause, death or Continuing Disability), subject to executing an irrevocable release, the CFO will be entitled to receive a severance package consisting of (i) salary continuation payments for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of such termination, at his most recent salary rate, (ii) the amount, if any, paid as an annual bonus in the year preceding his termination and (iii) COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan and for the 12-month period following termination he and his eligible dependents at the time of termination will be eligible to continue coverage at the same premium charged to active employees. 
The consideration to the CEO under the Separation Agreement is in lieu of any change of control or other consideration payable to him under his existing employment agreement. The Separation Agreement contains a general release of claims against us and other “Released Parties” by the CEO and a covenant not to sue such Released Parties. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, the CEO is required to comply with certain restrictive covenants regarding nondisclosure of Company information, non-disparagement, non-competition and non-solicitation of our customers and employees. 
As reported in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 14, 2017, three of our independent directors resigned from our Board of Directors and all committees, effective as of July 14, 2017. In connection therewith, the Board approved a reduction in the size of the Board of Directors from seven (7) to four (4) directors. The resignations of such directors did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies or practices. In connection with these resignations, we agreed to accelerate the vesting of 5,400 shares of restricted stock held by each of the resigning directors (including an aggregate of $7 of accrued dividends released upon the acceleration of the vesting of the restricted stock), and to make a one-time payment to each of the resigning directors of $52, which includes unpaid meeting fees through the date of resignation. Additionally, as reported in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 31, 2017, the Board approved an increase in the size of the Board of Directors from four (4) to five (5) members and added one new independent director. 
Another independent director, Robert Pons, tendered his resignation from the Board of Directors and all committees thereof effective December 31, 2017. The resignation of Mr. Pons did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to our operations, policies or practices. In connection his release of any claims against us, we agreed to accelerate the vesting of 7,500 shares of restricted stock held by Mr. Pons as of December 31, 2017. 
In connection with Mr. Pons’ resignation from the Board of Directors, we entered into a Consulting Agreement (the “Consulting Agreement”) with Spartan Advisors, Inc. (“Spartan”), a corporation owned and controlled Mr. Pons. Pursuant to the Consulting Agreement, Spartan will provide consulting services to us as reasonably requested by the Board of Directors, which services shall include identifying and presenting investment opportunities to the Company within the parameters provided by the Board from time to time. During the term of the Consulting Agreement, which will run from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018 unless terminated earlier in accordance with its terms, Spartan will be paid an aggregate of $85,000 in twelve monthly installments. Spartan will also be eligible to receive an “Incentive Transaction Bonus” (as defined in the Consulting Agreement upon the consummation of any acquisition (as defined in the Consulting Agreement, a “Sourced Transaction”) of an entity or business (as defined in the Consulting Agreement, a “Sourced Business”) by us that Spartan sourced and introduced to us during the term of the Consulting Agreement. Any transaction bonus payable to Spartan will equal the sum of (i) 1% of the total consideration paid by us for the Sourced Business in the Sourced Transaction and (ii) 7.5% of the “Net Asset Value” (as defined in the Consulting Agreement) of any subsequent sale of the Sourced Business by the Company. Each portion of the Incentive Transaction Bonus shall be paid in a lump sum cash payment no later than thirty (30) days following the consummation of the applicable transaction. Spartan will also receive 7,500 shares of restricted units of common stock of the Company, which will vest in equal installments on the first, second, and third anniversary of the Consulting Agreement. 
On January 4, 2018, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that it believes that we no longer have an operating business following the closing of the sale of the Content Delivery business assets and as a consequence the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department considers us a “public shell” under Nasdaq criteria. As such, the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department determined that the continued listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market is no longer warranted. We dispute the Nasdaq’s determination and have taken the necessary steps to appeal the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department’s determination to delist our securities by requesting a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Listing Panel”) and tendering the appropriate fee. Our common stock will continue to trade on the Nasdaq Global Market until our appeal is adjudicated before the Listing Panel. There can be no assurances that our appeal will be successful. During the pendency of the Company’s appeal of the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department’s determination, the Board of Directors of the Company and its subcommittee constituted by the Board of Directors to evaluate options to maximize the value of our remaining assets (the “Investment Committee”) will continue to evaluate options to maximize the value of the Company’s assets, including opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses that provide opportunities for appreciation in value. A hearing before the Listing Panel is scheduled for February 15, 2018 and we expect a decision from the Listing Panel within or up to thirty (30) days of the hearing. 
In his capacity as Executive Chairman, Mr. Barr will continue to serve as and execute the duties of the Chairman of the Board as set forth in the Company’s by-laws and Corporate Governance Guidelines. In his capacity as CEO and President, Mr. Barr shall perform, on a consultant basis, the senior executive officer and managerial job duties customary to such position, in light of the Company’s post-sale structure and as necessary to the operations of the Company and other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Board. 
Upon (i) the Board’s termination of Mr. Barr’s service as CEO and President of the Company, which shall not include termination based on (a) Mr. Barr’s resignation unless such resignation is in conjunction with or conditioned on the Company’s purchase of a significant operating asset or a sale or merger of the Company or (b) the Board’s finding of Due Cause or (ii) upon a “change of control” as defined in the Stock Plan, the Granted Stock Option shall accelerate and become immediately vested and exercisable. The term "Due Cause", as used herein, shall mean that (a) Mr. Barr has committed a willful serious act, such as (but not limited to) embezzlement, against the Company intended to enrich himself at the expense of the Company or has been convicted of a felony, or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; (b) Mr. Barr has (i) willfully or grossly neglected his duties hereunder, (ii) committed a material violation of the Company’s policies or procedures, or (iii) intentionally failed to observe specific lawful directives or policies of the Board of Directors; (c) Mr. Barr undertook to provide any chief executive officer certification required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes-Oxley Act") without taking reasonable and appropriate steps as outlined by the Company’s audit committee to determine whether the certification was accurate; or (d) Mr. Barr’s failure to fulfill any of his duties under, or violation of any provision of, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including, but not limited to, failure to establish and administer effectively systems and controls as outlined by the Company’s audit committee necessary for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
During his service as Executive Chairman, CEO and President of the Company Mr. Barr shall not participate in the Company’s bonus or benefits programs for senior executives other than as set forth above. Upon termination of Mr. Barr’s interim service as CEO and President of the Company, it is the Board’s intention that Mr. Barr will continue to serve on the Board and stand for election at the 2018 Meeting. 
Pursuant to the CDN APA, the purchase price payable by Vecima is subject to adjustment based on a net working capital target of $2.64 million. In addition, $1.45 million of the purchase price payable by Vecima at closing has been placed into escrow and is subject to loss, in whole or in part after the closing, if Vecima successfully asserts claims for indemnification pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the CDN APA. Furthermore, we may have unforeseen liabilities and expenses that must be satisfied from the after-tax net proceeds of the Content Delivery business sale, leaving less to fund our remaining operations. In addition, $2 million of the purchase price payable by the RT Purchaser at closing of the sale of the Real-Time business was placed into escrow and remains subject to loss, in whole or in part, if the RT Purchaser successfully asserts claims for indemnification pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the Real-Time APA. 
Stockholders are not guaranteed any of the proceeds from the sales of the Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses. 
Our Board of Directors has instructed the Investment Committee to evaluate options to maximize the value of our remaining assets, including identifying potential opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses that provide opportunities for appreciation in value. If the Investment Committee is unable to identify a suitable acquisition target that is appropriately valued, we may consider alternatives for returning capital to stockholders while we wind up our affairs. If we wind up our affairs and liquidate under applicable law, our net operating loss carryforwards will be forfeited. 
Management and the Board of Directors could spend or invest the Company’s capital in ways with which our stockholders may not agree. 
There can be no assurances that we will be successful in reinvesting the Company’s assets. 
The process to identify potential investment opportunities and acquisition targets, to investigate and evaluate the future returns therefrom and business prospects thereof and to negotiate definitive agreements with respect to such transactions on mutually acceptable terms can be time consuming and costly. We are likely to encounter intense competition from other companies with similar business objectives to ours, including private equity and venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, investment firms with significantly greater financial and other resources and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these companies are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations. 
Resources will be expended in researching potential acquisitions and investments that might not be consummated. 
We may have a limited ability to assess the management of a prospective target business and, as a result, may effect a business combination with a target business whose management may not have the skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. 
When evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination with a prospective target business, our ability to assess the target business’s management may be limited due to a lack of time, resources or information. Our assessment of the capabilities of the target’s management, therefore, may prove to be incorrect and such management may lack the skills, qualifications or abilities we suspected. Should the target’s management not possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to manage a public company, the operations and profitability of the post-combination business may be negatively impacted. 
We may attempt to complete business combinations with private companies about which little information is available, which may result in a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all.  
In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effectuate business combinations with privately held companies. By definition, very little public information exists about private companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information, which may result in a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we expect, if at all. 
We will be unable to compete with the Content Delivery business or the Real-Time business for a period of three years after the date of the closing of the sale of each respective business. 
 ·own, manage, operate, assist, invest in or acquire any person or entity that competes with the Content Delivery business or the Real-Time business (except for ownership of 5% or less of the outstanding securities of a publicly traded entity). 
Under Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, a shell company is any company with (i) no or nominal operations; and (ii) either (A) no or nominal assets, (B) assets consisting solely of cash and cash equivalents, or (C) assets consisting of any amount of cash and cash equivalents and nominal other assets. As of December 31, 2017, and as of the date hereof, we are not a shell company under federal securities laws because we have material GAAP assets other than cash and cash equivalents, including, as of the date hereof, (i) $3.45 million in escrow receivables related to the escrow agreements we entered into in connection the sale of the Real-Time business and Content Delivery business, (ii) $7.97 million in securities that are classified as short-term investments under GAAP, and (iii) State tax credits receivables and various other prepaid assets. If the escrow agreements terminate and the portion of the escrow funds not used to satisfy indemnification obligations of the company to the RT Purchaser and Vecima are released to us prior to the company’s consummation of a transaction with an acquisition target, our only remaining material GAAP assets other than cash and cash equivalents will be short-term investments. If the Company is required to liquidate its short-term investments under such circumstances prior to the acquisition of an operating business, we may be considered a shell company under the federal securities laws. 
Applicable securities rules prohibit shell companies from using (i) a Form S-8 registration statement to register securities pursuant to employee compensation plans for so long as we are a shell company and for a period of 60 days thereafter and (ii) Form S-3 for the registration of securities for so long as we are a shell company and for 12 months thereafter. In addition, Form 8-K requires shell companies to provide detailed disclosure immediately upon completion of a transaction that causes it to cease being a shell company rather than within 71 days after the date that the initial Form 8-K is filed, as would be the case if the company is able to consummate an acquisition while it is not a shell company. 
In addition, under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, a holder of restricted securities of a “shell company” is not allowed to resell their securities in reliance upon Rule 144 until certain conditions are satisfied. If the company becomes a shell company, holders of restricted securities issued by the company will not be able to resell their securities in reliance upon Rule 144 until all of such conditions are satisfied, which cannot occur for at least one year after the company has ceased being shell company. During such time, a holder of restricted securities issued by the company will have to rely on another exemption from registration to resell restricted securities issued by the company. 
