fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States ("U.S.") generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU"), which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
The Company adopted this guidance as of October 1, 2017 and noted the adoption did not have an impact on the financial statements or the related disclosures.
In July 2015, the FASB issued a new ASU, which aligns the measurement of inventory under GAAP more closely with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The excess tax deficiencies were recorded as an operating activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows during the first quarter of 2018.
Also, as part of the adoption, a $9.7 adjustment was recorded to increase retained earnings and deferred tax assets to recognize the cumulative amount of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of October 1, 2017.
As such, $7.1 of cash outflows for tax withholding payments were reclassified from an operating activity to a financing activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
Finally, under the ASU, the Company elected to record forfeitures as they occur.
This election did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU, which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries and across capital markets.


item2.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.
Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions and dispositions (including the disposition of the gloves business and acquisition of Bulldog).
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, restructuring charges, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act.
Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry.
We have not independently verified data from industry analyses and cannot guarantee accuracy or completeness.
•Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.
•Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union.
•We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses related to our pension plans.
Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have a portfolio of over 25 brands and a broad global footprint that operates in more than 50 countries.
Following is a summary of key results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
Net earnings and earnings per share ("EPS") for the time periods presented were impacted by the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, restructuring activities, the related tax impact from those costs and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.


item3.txt
At times, we enter into contractual arrangements (derivatives) to reduce these exposures.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
Refer to Item 1A.


