fls.txt
Risk Factors and “Forward-Looking Statements” included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.


item1.txt
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets.
During 2016, the FASB issued three ASUs clarifying the revenue recognition implementation guidance on various topics included within the original ASU.
As a result, the adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Miscellaneous receivables on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $1.3 liability for advanced payments from customers in Other current liabilities with a corresponding increase to Trade receivables to reclassify advanced payments from customers from contra-Trade receivables as of October 1, 2018.
Refer to Note 2 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The Company noted that the adoption of the ASU resulted in the reclassification of approximately $2.5 and $1.7 in operating cash inflows for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, associated with the $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement entered into on September 15, 2017 with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser (the “Accounts Receivable Facility”) to investing cash inflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
In October 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The impact of the adoption of the ASU resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and a credit to retained earnings of $3.9.
The amendments set forth in the ASU specify that when the fair value of the gross assets acquired or disposed of is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similarly identifiable assets, the integrated set of assets and activities is not a business.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an ASU that clarifies the scope of accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018 and noted that the impact on its financial statements was not material.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Risk Factors and “Forward-Looking Statements” included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions, and dispositions (including the acquisition of Jack Black and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business).
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in U.S. dollars.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
While the Company incurred costs and realized savings for Project Fuel in fiscal 2018, most costs will be incurred and savings will be achieved during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.
Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.
Total assets sold were $3.1, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The gain on sale of Playtex gloves recognized for fiscal year 2018 was $15.3.
Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the sale of the Playtex gloves business.


item3.txt
At times, we enter into contractual arrangements (derivatives) to reduce these exposures.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 2.


