fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018 (the “2018 Annual Report”).


item1.txt
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Edgewell” or the “Company”), is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care, and infant care categories.
Certain amounts within Cash Flows from Operating Activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation.
Net cash from operating activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was not impacted by this change.
As a result, the adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $1.3 liability for advanced payments from customers in Other current liabilities with a corresponding increase to Trade receivables to reclassify advanced payments from customers from contra-Trade receivables as of October 1, 2018.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The Company noted that the adoption of the ASU resulted in the reclassification of approximately $9.0 and $7.2 in operating cash inflows for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, associated with the $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement entered into on September 15, 2017 with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser (the “Accounts Receivable Facility”) to investing cash inflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16 intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The impact of the adoption of the ASU resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and a credit to retained earnings of $3.9.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an ASU that clarifies the scope of accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018 and noted that the impact on its financial statements was not material.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.
The update will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
On October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 which provided guidance for accounting for revenue from contracts with customers.


item2.txt
You should not place undue reliance on these statements.
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as “adjusted” or “organic” and exclude items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s, Inc. (“Harry’s”) acquisition and integration planning costs, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, the Jack Black, L.L.C.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions, and dispositions (including the acquisition of Jack Black through February 2019 and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business through October 2018).
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this data.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in U.S. dollars.
On May 9, 2019, we announced that we have entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “ Merger Agreement”) under which we will combine with Harry’s in a cash and stock transaction that values Harry’s at $1,370 (the “Merger”).
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement and based on our closing share price on May 8, 2019, approximately 79% of the total value of the transaction will be paid in cash and 21% will be paid in shares of our common stock.
We have incurred costs associated with the acquisition of Harry’s totaling $1.8 in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.
Additionally, the carrying value of the Wet Ones and Diaper Genie trade names were greater than the fair values and resulted in non-cash impairments of the indefinite-lived intangible assets of $87.0 and $75.0, respectively.
Refer to additional discussion around goodwill and intangible asset valuation in our 2018 Annual Report.
The Company has incurred costs and realized savings for Project Fuel in fiscal 2018 and for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and expects to incur additional costs and realize additional savings during the remainder of fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt



