fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States ("U.S.") generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within the Company's results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018.
For more information on the acquisition, see Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
In July 2015, the FASB issued a new ASU which aligns the measurement of inventory under GAAP more closely with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The tax deficiencies were recorded as an operating activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows during the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Also, as part of the adoption, a $9.7 adjustment was recorded to increase retained earnings and deferred tax assets to recognize the cumulative amount of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of October 1, 2017.
Finally, under the ASU, the Company elected to record forfeitures as they occur.
This election did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
The Company adopted this standard in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Refer to Note 5 for disclosures related to the Tax Act.


item2.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.
Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as "adjusted" or "organic" and exclude items such as the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Jack Black, L.L.C.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the impact of acquisitions includes net sales and segment profit activity for Jack Black, which was acquired in March 2018.
We have not independently verified data from industry analyses and cannot guarantee accuracy or completeness.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
•Our inability to execute a successful e-commerce strategy could have a significant impact on our business.
•Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.
On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States, for approximately $90.3, net of cash acquired.
The acquisition will create opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio in growing categories in the U.S. and globally, while nurturing the brand equity of Jack Black.
The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within the Company's results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018.
Refer to Note 2 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions.


