fls.txt



item1.txt
On June 22, 2018, the Court entered an order denying a joint motion by the putative class plaintiffs and the settling defendants to dissolve the injunction in the putative class case as against the settling defendants, and entered an order denying Fujifilm’s motion to dissolve the injunctions in the putative class case and Deason I in their entirety.
Fair value for deferred compensation plan liabilities is based on the fair value of investments corresponding to employees’ investment selections.
On March 20, 2018, the Court entered an opinion and order granting the motions, and on March 23, 2018, the Court entered a judgment of dismissal and closed the case.
On August 2, 2018, the Appellate Division entered orders recognizing the Xerox defendants’ withdrawal of their appeal in the Deason cases and denying all appellants’ motions to stay pending determination of appeals in the Deason and putative class cases.
At a conference on September 24, 2018, the Court stayed all discovery pending resolution of Xerox’s motion to dismiss.
With respect to the unreserved tax contingency, the majority has been assessed by management as being remote as to the likelihood of ultimately resulting in a loss to the Company.
We perform an analysis of the stand-alone selling price of equipment based on cash selling prices during the applicable period.
Xerox filed its answer denying the claims on March 15, 2019.
At this time, however, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in these lawsuits.
Differences upon adoption were not material.
The following is a summary of derivative gains (losses).
Xerox is not required to make any payment under the Agreement.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components.
On January 8, 2019, the Court entered an order staying all further proceedings in Deason I and the putative class case until thirty days after exhaustion of appeals, including any appeals to the New York State Court of Appeals, of the Appellate Decision and Order.
These costs were partially offset by $8 of net reversals, primarily resulting from changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.


item2.txt
Management believes that all of these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period’s results against the corresponding prior period’s results.
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
The increase reflects improved cash flow from earnings and lower restructuring payments, which were partially offset by a use of cash for working capital2 and accrued compensation.
The restructuring reserve balance as of March 31, 2019 for all programs was $80 million, of which $74 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.
million and acquisitions of $4 million.
The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency exchange and interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged.
SAG of $548 million was $80 million lower than first quarter 2018, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as favorable impacts of approximately $13 million from translation currency and $9 million from a prior year accelerated depreciation charge.
These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility.


item4.txt
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(42) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
10.4 Amended Letter of Agreement dated April 17, 2019 between Registrant and Giovanni (John) Visentin.
3 dated January 14, 2019 to Registrant's 2004 Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of June 30, 2017.


part2.txt
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(42) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
10.4 Amended Letter of Agreement dated April 17, 2019 between Registrant and Giovanni (John) Visentin.
None.


