Finance receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing leases and installment loans arising from the marketing of our equipment.
As of March 31, 2018, the total amounts related to the unreserved portion of the tax and labor contingencies, inclusive of any related interest, amounted to approximately $585, with the decrease from our December 31, 2017 balance of approximately $600, primarily related to closed cases, partially offset by interest.
We use interest rate swap agreements to manage our interest rate exposure and to achieve a desired proportion of variable and fixed rate debt.
Refer to Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments for additional information regarding the bridge loan facility entered into in connection with the Fuji Xerox Transaction.
At a hearing before the appellate court on May 7, 2018, the appellate court ruled that the appeals would be heard on an expedited basis and granted a partial interim stay allowing Xerox and Fujifilm to take steps to seek regulatory approvals related to the Fuji Transaction pending a ruling from the appellate court on defendants’ motions to stay pending appeal.
In 2017 Fujifilm publicly announced it had formed an independent investigation committee ("IIC") to conduct a review of the appropriateness of the accounting practices at Fuji Xerox’s New Zealand subsidiary related to the recovery of receivables associated with certain bundled leasing transactions that occurred in, or prior to, Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year ending March 31, 2016.
The information set forth under Note 19 – Contingencies and Litigation in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated by reference in answer to this Item.
This update includes specific guidance which requires cash collected on beneficial interests received in a sale of receivables be classified as inflows from investing activities.Prices in this product group can range from approximately $150 to $3,000.
On an adjusted1 basis, net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $178 million, or $0.68 per diluted share.
CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.
On an adjusted1 basis, net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $178 million, or $0.68 per diluted share.
Refer to Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the bridge facility entered into in connection with the Fuji Xerox Transaction.
2018 reflects payments of $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $13 million of bridge facility costs.
•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises.
•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises.101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.