fls.txt



item1.txt
The entire balance is expected to be reclassified into Net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions.
We believe five years is representative of the period during which the equipment is expected to be economically usable, with normal service, for the purpose for which it is intended.
As a result of this change, $9 and $20 of revenue was recorded, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, as Sales, which would have been previously recorded as Services revenue in prior periods.
Under ASC Topic 606, based on the nature of our contracts and consistent with prior practice, we recognize revenue upon invoicing the customer for the large majority of our revenue.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and is recognized when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer or in the period the customer benefits from the service.
Finance receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing leases and installment loans arising from the marketing of our equipment.
Concurrent with the termination of the Transaction Agreements, the commitment to provide the unsecured bridge loan facility was terminated in the second quarter 2018 and, as a result, the remaining unamortized debt issuance costs of $16 were written-off.
The remaining amounts are allocated to the equipment and financing elements, which are subjected to the accounting estimates noted below under “Leases”.
The Company is currently planning to elect the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance.
On April 27, 2018, the Court issued decisions and orders granting plaintiffs’ preliminary injunction motions, which (i) enjoin Xerox from “taking any further action to consummate the change of control transaction between Xerox and Fuji that was announced on January 31, 2018 pending a final determination of the claims asserted in the underlying action;” (ii) enjoin Xerox from enforcing its advance notice bylaw provision requiring shareholders to nominate directors for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting by December 11, 2017; and (iii) require Xerox to waive such advance notice bylaw provision to permit the noticing of a slate of director nominees for election at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting, and denying defendants’ motions to dismiss.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and is recognized when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer or in the period the customer benefits from the service.


item2.txt
•9% decrease in high-end color installs, as growth from our new Iridesse production press was offset by lower installs of iGen and lower-end production systems.
•$17 million increase from inventory due to timing of the product launch in prior year.
Non-financing interest expense for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $56 million and decreased $4 million as compared to the prior year period.
Refer to Note 4 - Divestitures in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Discontinued operations.
These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility.
•$68 million decrease from Accounts payable and accrued compensation primarily related to the year-over-year timing of supplier and vendor payments.
•$18 million increase due to lower net tax payments.
Discontinued operations relate to our Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) business, which was separated effective December 31, 2016.
•$33 million increase from lower restructuring payments.
Contract renewal rate for the second quarter of 2018 was 75%, compared to our full year 2017 renewal rate of 84%.
The restructuring reserve balance as of June 30, 2018 for all programs was $79 million, of which $76 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.


item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
See SEC File Number 001-04471.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 13, 2018.


part2.txt
See SEC File Number 001-04471.
10.2 Memorandum of Understanding, dated May 13, 2018, by and among representatives acting on behalf of Deason, Registrant, the Existing Directors and the other parties thereto.
See SEC File Number 001-04471.
10.1 Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2018, by and among Registrant, Darwin Deason, the persons and entities listed on Schedule A thereto, William Curt Hunter, Jeffrey Jacobson, Robert J. Keegan, Charles Prince, Ann N. Reese, Stephen H. Rusckowski, Sara Martinez Tucker, Gregory Q.


