Some of these conforming changes, such as those related to the definition of lease term and minimum lease payments, resulted in certain lease arrangements, that would have been previously accounted for as operating leases, to be classified and accounted for as sales-type leases with a corresponding up-front recognition of equipment sales revenue.
The accounts receivable sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days.
Prior year amounts were also revised as follows to conform to the 2019 presentation.
Includes retention related severance and bonuses for employees expected to continue working beyond their minimum notification period before termination.
At this time, however, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in these lawsuits.
Refer to Note 5 - Revenue for additional information on contract costs.
The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that Xerox's directors breached their fiduciary duties in negotiating, approving, and purportedly making false and misleading disclosures about the Fuji Transaction, and that Fujifilm aided and abetted those breaches.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC Topic 842).
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs.
When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $1 million from second quarter 2018 primarily due to a lower debt balance.
These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility.
The decrease also included the unfavorable impact of transaction currency.10.5 Form of One-Year RSU Agreement under Xerox Corporation 2004 Performance Incentive Plan.
2.0 Certificate of Merger dated July 31, 2019 between Xerox Merger Sub, Inc. and Xerox Corporation.Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Xerox Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 31, 2019.