fls.txt



item1.txt
The entire balance is expected to be reclassified into Net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions.
The loss from operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 primarily reflected changes in estimates of separation-related costs.
The complaint alleges that Xerox (1) willfully breached the Fuji Transaction agreements by purporting to terminate them to appease Messrs. Icahn and Deason and using as a pretext issues with Fujifilm’s untimely submitted financials, and by settling the Deason litigation without notice to or consent by Fujifilm; (2) willfully breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by failing to support and use best efforts to conclude the Fuji Transaction, thus depriving Fujifilm of the benefit of its bargain; and (3) effected a change in Xerox’s recommendation regarding the Fuji Transaction, entitling Fujifilm to terminate the Fuji Transaction agreements and to receive from Xerox a $183 termination fee.
The accounting for lessors does not fundamentally change with this update except for changes to conform and align guidance to the lessee guidance as well as to the new revenue recognition guidance in ASU 2014-09.
The range of cash selling prices must be reasonably consistent with the lease selling prices in order for us to determine that such lease prices are indicative of fair value.
At this time, however, it is premature to make any conclusion regarding the probability of incurring material losses in these lawsuits.
In connection with the above proceedings, customary local regulations may require us to make escrow cash deposits or post other security of up to half of the total amount in dispute.
The accounting for lessors does not fundamentally change with this update except for changes to conform and align guidance to the lessee guidance as well as to the new revenue recognition guidance in ASU 2014-09.
Ribbe and Fujifilm filed oppositions to the putative class plaintiffs’ motion to transmit notice to the proposed class.
The following table summarizes cash contributions to our defined benefit pension plans and retiree health benefit plans.
The update provides criteria for determining which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense.
On May 1, 2018, Xerox entered into a Director Appointment, Nomination and Settlement Agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”) with Carl Icahn and Darwin Deason, among others, that would have resolved the pending proxy contest in connection with Xerox’s 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, as well as the ongoing litigation brought by Mr. Deason against Xerox and its directors related to the Fuji Transaction.
The update also clarifies the presentation requirements for reporting such costs in the entity’s financial statements.


item2.txt
Equity income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 reflected savings from restructuring as well as lower bad debt provisions, while the equity loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included an approximate $28 million charge related to the out-of-period adjustments described in Note 9 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity, in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and in the "Fuji Xerox Adjustments" section above.
SAG as a percentage of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of 25.1% was flat as compared to the prior year period, reflecting primarily the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our business transformation actions.
•8% increase in mid-range color installs reflecting higher demand for our ConnectKey products from our U.S. Enterprise channel (primarily from large and public sector accounts) as well as higher sales of lower-end A3 devices in developing markets.
•21% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven largely by higher activity from low-end devices in developing markets as well as higher sales of our ConnectKey devices through indirect channels in the U.S. and Europe.
•2017 - A benefit from the remeasurement of a tax matter in the first quarter of 2017 that related to a previously adjusted item.
As permitted, certain of these derivative contracts have been designated for hedge accounting treatment.
Refer to Note 10 - Restructuring Programs in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs.
Refer to Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the bridge facility that was terminated during the second quarter of 2018.
Approximately half of the reduction was associated with restructuring actions, while the remainder resulted from net attrition (attrition net of gross hires), of which a large portion is not expected to be backfilled.
Post sale revenue of $5.73 billion, which represented 78% of total revenue, declined 3.2% and included a 1.6-percentage point favorable impact from currency.
The increase was primarily due to the prior year voluntary contributions of $500 million to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans and the reclassification of $170 million of collections of deferred proceeds and beneficial interests from the sale of receivables to investing cash flows as a result of an accounting change in the prior year (refer to Note 3 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information).
Discontinued operations relate to our Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) business, which was separated effective December 31, 2016.


item4.txt
101.INS XBRL Instance Document.
None.


part2.txt
31(a) Certification of CEO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).
31(b) Certification of CFO pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a).


