See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by Monolithic Power Systems, Inc. (the “Company” or “MPS”) in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted in accordance with these accounting principles, rules and regulations. The information in this report should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on  March 1, 2019. 
Except for the changes related to leases discussed in Note 6, there have been no other changes to the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three and nine months ended  September 30, 2019, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2018. 
In  February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires entities to recognize right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheets for leases with terms greater than 12 months. In addition, the standard applies to leases embedded in service or other arrangements. The Company adopted the standard on  January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective method and did not restate comparative periods, as permitted by the standard. In addition, the Company elected the transition practical expedients to not reassess its contracts that existed prior to  January 1, 2019. 
Upon adoption, the Company recognized ROU assets and lease liabilities of its outstanding operating leases on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, primarily related to real estate. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations or the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. See Note 6 for further discussion. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted as of  September 30, 2019 
In  January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairment. The guidance removes step two of the goodwill impairment test, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation. A goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. Entities will continue to have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary. The standard will be applied prospectively, and will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact of the standard and does not expect the adoption to have a material impact on its annual goodwill impairment test. 
In  June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326), which introduces a model based on expected losses to estimate credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments. In addition, for available-for-sale debt securities, the standard eliminates the concept of other-than-temporary impairment and entities will be required to recognize an allowance for credit losses rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2018. Entities will apply the standard by recording a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings. Based on its preliminary assessment, the Company does not expect the standard to have a material impact on its financial statements upon adoption.
Revenue from Product Sales 
The Company generates revenue primarily from product sales, which include assembled and tested integrated circuits, as well as dies in wafer form. These product sales were 99% and 98% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended  September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 99% and 98% of the Company’s total revenue for the nine months ended  September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The remaining revenue primarily includes royalty revenue from licensing arrangements and revenue from wafer testing services performed for third parties, which have not been significant in all periods presented. See Note 8 for the disaggregation of the Company’s revenue by geographic regions and by product families. 
The Company sells its products primarily through third-party distributors, value-added resellers, original equipment manufacturers, original design manufacturers and electronic manufacturing service providers. For the three months ended  September 30, 2019 and 2018, 88% and 87%, respectively, of the Company’s product sales were made through distribution arrangements. For the nine months ended  September 30, 2019 and 2018, 83% and 87%, respectively, of the Company’s product sales were made through distribution arrangements. These distribution arrangements contain enforceable rights and obligations specific to those distributors and not the end customers. Purchase orders, which are generally governed by sales agreements or the Company's standard terms of sale, set the final terms for unit price, quantity, shipping and payment agreed by both parties. The Company considers purchase orders to be the contracts with customers. The unit price as stated on the purchase orders is considered the observable, stand-alone selling price for the arrangements. 
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of the promised goods or services to its customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The Company excludes taxes assessed by government authorities, such as sales taxes, from revenue. 
Under certain consignment agreements, revenue is not recognized when the products are shipped and delivered to be held at customers’ designated locations because the Company continues to control the products and retain ownership, and the customers do not have an unconditional obligation to pay. The Company recognizes revenue when the customers consume the products from the consigned inventory locations or, in some cases, after a 60-day period from the delivery date has passed, at which time control transfers to the customers and the Company invoices them for payment. 
The Company accounts for price adjustment and stock rotation rights as variable consideration that reduces the transaction price, and recognizes that reduction in the same period the associated revenue is recognized. Three U.S.-based distributors have price adjustment rights when they sell the Company’s products to their end customers at a price that is lower than the distribution price invoiced by the Company. When the Company receives claims from the distributors that products have been sold to the end customers at the lower price, the Company issues the distributors credit memos for the price adjustments. The Company estimates the price adjustments using the expected value method based on an analysis of historical claims, at both the distributor and product level, as well as an assessment of any known trends of product sales mix. Other U.S. distributors and non-U.S. distributors, which make up the majority of the Company’s total sales to distributors, do not have price adjustment rights. The Company records a credit against accounts receivable for the estimated price adjustments, with a corresponding reduction to revenue. 
Certain distributors have limited stock rotation rights that permit the return of a small percentage of the previous six months’ purchases in accordance with the contract terms. The Company estimates the stock rotation returns using the expected value method based on an analysis of historical returns, and the current level of inventory in the distribution channel. The Company records a liability for the stock rotation reserve, with a corresponding reduction to revenue. In addition, the Company recognizes an asset for product returns which represents the right to recover products from the customers related to stock rotations, with a corresponding reduction to cost of revenue. 
The Company records a receivable when it has an unconditional right to receive consideration after the performance obligations are satisfied. As of  September 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018, accounts receivable totaled $58.3 million and $55.2 million, respectively. The Company did not record any allowance for doubtful accounts as of  September 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018. 
For certain customers located in Asia, the Company requires cash payments two weeks before the products are scheduled to be shipped to the customers. The Company records these payments received in advance of performance as customer prepayments within current accrued liabilities. As of  September 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018, customer prepayments totaled $4.2 million and $2.5 million, respectively. The increase in the customer prepayment balance for the nine months ended  September 30, 2019 resulted from an increase in unfulfilled customer orders for which the Company has received payments. For the nine months ended  September 30, 2019, the Company recognized $2.5 million of revenue that was included in the customer prepayment balance as of  December 31, 2018. 
The Company has elected the practical expedient to expense sales commissions as incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less.  
The Company’s standard payment terms generally require customers to pay 30 to 60 days after the Company satisfies the performance obligations. For those customers who are required to pay in advance, the Company satisfies the performance obligations generally within two weeks. The Company has elected not to determine whether contacts with customers contain significant financing components. 
The Company’s unsatisfied performance obligations primarily include products held in consignment arrangements and customer purchase orders for products that the Company has not yet shipped. Because the Company expects to fulfill these performance obligations within one year, the Company has elected not to disclose the amount of these remaining performance obligations or the timing of recognition. 
2014 Equity Incentive Plan (as amended, the “2014 Plan”) 
The Board of Directors adopted the 2014 Plan in  April 2013, and the stockholders approved it in  June 2013. In  October 2014, the Board of Directors approved certain amendments to the 2014 Plan. The 2014 Plan, as amended, became effective on  November 13, 2014 and provides for the issuance of up to 5.5 million shares. The 2014 Plan will expire on  November 13, 2024. As of  September 30, 2019, 1.6 million shares remained available for future issuance under the 2014 Plan.  
Stock-Based Compensation Expense 
Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”) 
The Company’s RSUs include time-based RSUs, RSUs with performance conditions (“PSUs”), RSUs with market conditions (“MSUs”), and RSUs with both market and performance conditions (“MPSUs”). Vesting of awards with performance conditions or market conditions is subject to the achievement of pre-determined performance goals and the approval of such achievement by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”). All awards include service conditions which require continued employment with the Company. 
The intrinsic value related to vested RSUs was $26.1 million and $13.9 million for the three months ended  September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The intrinsic value related to vested RSUs was $110.1 million and $79.0 million for the nine months ended  September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of  September 30, 2019, the total intrinsic value of all outstanding RSUs was $617.6 million, based on the closing stock price of $155.63. As of  September 30, 2019, unamortized compensation expense related to all outstanding RSUs was $120.5 million with a weighted-average remaining recognition period of approximately 3.4 years.  
Cash proceeds from vested PSUs with a purchase price totaled $14.6 million and $9.6 million for the nine months ended  September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
For the nine months ended  September 30, 2019, the Compensation Committee granted 88,000 RSUs with service conditions to non-executive employees and non-employee directors. The RSUs vest over four years for employees and one year for directors, subject to continued service with the Company.  
In  February 2019, the Compensation Committee granted 151,000 PSUs to the executive officers, which represent a target number of shares to be earned based on the Company’s average two-year (2019 and 2020) revenue growth rate compared against the analog industry’s average two-year revenue growth rate as published by the Semiconductor Industry Association (“2019 Executive PSUs”). The maximum number of shares that an executive officer can earn is 300% of the target number of the 2019 Executive PSUs. 50% of the 2019 Executive PSUs will vest in the first quarter of 2021 if the pre-determined performance goals are met during the performance period. The remaining 2019 Executive PSUs will vest over the following two years on a quarterly basis. Assuming the achievement of the highest level of performance goals, the total stock-based compensation cost for the 2019 Executive PSUs is $46.6 million. 
2004 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) 
For the three months ended  September 30, 2019 and 2018, 14,000 and 15,000 shares, respectively, were issued. For the nine months ended  September 30, 2019 and 2018, 28,000 and 33,000 shares, respectively, were issued. As of  September 30, 2019, 4.5 million shares were available for future issuance under the ESPP. 
Cash proceeds from the shares issued under the ESPP were $3.3 million and $3.0 million for the nine months ended  September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
Inventories  
Other Current Assets 
Other Long-Term Assets 
Other Accrued Liabilities 
Other Long-Term Liabilities 
In  March 2019, the Company completed the purchase of an office building and land located in Kirkland, Washington for $52.9 million in cash. The property also had in-place leases for a portion of the building which were assumed by the Company. The Company accounted for the purchase as an asset acquisition and capitalized $0.4 million of transaction costs. 
The fair value of the building was determined based on the income approach, which considered the discounted cash flows and direct capitalization analysis, and the sales comparison approach. The fair value of land was determined based on the sales comparison approach. The fair value of the in-place leases was determined primarily based on the analysis of the economic benefits of certain cost savings attributable to the leases. 
The building is depreciated over a useful life of 40 years and the in-place leases are amortized over the average remaining lease terms of 3.5 years. Land is not depreciated.
The Company has operating leases primarily for administrative and sales and marketing offices, manufacturing operations and research and development facilities, employee housing units, and certain equipment. These leases have remaining lease terms from less than a year to four years. Some of these leases include options to renew the lease term for up to five years or on a month-to-month basis. The Company does not have finance lease arrangements. 
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. ROU assets also include any initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, less lease incentives received. As of  September 30, 2019, operating lease ROU assets totaled $3.1 million and operating lease liabilities totaled $2.5 million. The Company recognizes operating lease costs on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
As permitted by Topic 842, the Company does not recognize leases with a term of 12 months or less at the commencement date on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. For those lease arrangements that contain lease and nonlease components, the Company has elected the practical expedient to combine them as single lease components. Because the implicit rate in each lease is not readily determinable, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate to determine the present value of the remaining lease payments.  
The Company owns certain office buildings and leases a portion of these properties to third parties under arrangements that are classified as operating leases. These leases have remaining lease terms from two years to five years. Some of these leases include options to renew the lease term for up to five years. 
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per share reflects the potential dilution that would occur if outstanding securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common shares, and calculated using the treasury stock method. Contingently issuable shares, including equity awards with performance conditions or market conditions, are considered outstanding common shares and included in the basic net income per share as of the date that all necessary conditions to earn the awards have been satisfied. Prior to the end of the contingency period, the number of contingently issuable shares included in the diluted net income per share is based on the number of shares, if any, that would be issuable under the terms of the arrangement at the end of the reporting period. 
The Company’s outstanding RSUs contain forfeitable rights to receive cash dividend equivalents, which are accumulated and paid to the employees when the underlying RSUs vest. Dividend equivalents accumulated on the underlying RSUs are forfeited if the employees do not fulfill the requisite service requirement and the awards do not vest. Accordingly, these awards are not treated as participating securities in the net income per share calculation.  
The Company operates in one reportable segment that includes the design, development, marketing and sale of high-performance analog solutions for the computing and storage, automotive, industrial, communications and consumer markets. The Company’s chief operating decision maker is its Chief Executive Officer, who reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. The Company derives a majority of its revenue from sales to customers located outside North America, with geographic revenue based on the customers’ ship-to locations.  
The Company’s agreements with these third-party distributors and value-added resellers were made in the ordinary course of business and  may be terminated with or without cause by these customers with advance notice. Although the Company  may experience a short-term disruption in the distribution of its products and a short-term decline in revenue if its agreement with any of these customers was terminated, the Company believes that such termination would not have a material adverse effect on its financial statements because it would be able to engage alternative distributors, resellers and other distribution channels to deliver its products to end customers within a short period following the termination of the agreement with the customer.  
Product Warranties 
Purchase Commitments 
The Company has outstanding purchase commitments with its suppliers and other parties that require the future purchase of goods or services, which primarily consist of wafer purchases, assembly and other manufacturing services, construction services and license arrangements. As of  September 30, 2019, the Company’s outstanding purchase obligations totaled approximately $70.9 million. 
Litigation 
The Company is a party to actions and proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including potential litigation initiated by its stockholders, challenges to the enforceability or validity of its intellectual property, claims that the Company’s products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and employment matters. These proceedings often involve complex questions of fact and law and  may require the expenditure of significant funds and the diversion of other resources to prosecute and defend. The Company defends itself vigorously against any such claims. As of  September 30, 2019, there were no material pending legal proceedings to which the Company was a party.
As of  September 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018, unrealized losses that had been in a continuous loss position for 12 months or longer were $0.3 million and $1.6 million, respectively. As of  September 30, 2019, the Company did not consider any of its available-for-sale investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired. 
As of  September 30, 2019, restricted cash included amounts that are set aside for the liquidation of a wholly-owned foreign subsidiary and cannot be withdrawn by the Company under the local law. The restriction will end when the liquidation is complete. In addition, as of  September 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018, restricted cash included a security deposit that is set aside in a bank account and cannot be withdrawn by the Company under the terms of a lease agreement. The restriction will end upon the expiration of the lease.  
For the three and nine months ended  September 30, 2019, “other” includes a $0.7 million gain recognized from the sale of a parcel of land, net of certain capitalized costs and selling expenses. 
The income tax provision for interim periods is generally determined using an estimate of the Company’s annual effective tax rate and adjusted for discrete items, if any, in the relevant period. Each quarter the estimate of the annual effective tax rate is updated, and if the Company’s estimated tax rate changes, a cumulative adjustment is made. 
The income tax expense for the three months ended  September 30, 2019 was $2.8 million, or 8.6% of pre-tax income. The income tax expense for the nine months ended  September 30, 2019 was $3.3 million, or 4.1% of pre-tax income. The effective tax rates differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to foreign income from the Company’s subsidiaries in Bermuda and China being taxed at lower statutory tax rates, and the benefit obtained from certain discrete items recognized in the periods, including excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The decrease in the effective tax rates relative to the federal statutory rate was partially offset by the inclusion of the global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) tax. 
The income tax provision for the three months ended  September 30, 2018 was $4.6 million, or 12.8% of pre-tax income. The income tax provision for the nine months ended  September 30, 2018 was $8.2 million, or 9.5% of pre-tax income. The effective tax rates differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to foreign income from the Company’s subsidiaries in Bermuda and China being taxed at lower statutory tax rates, and the benefit obtained from certain discrete items recognized in the periods, including excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The decrease in the effective tax rates relative to the federal statutory rate was partially offset by the inclusion of the GILTI tax. 
For the three and nine months ended  September 30, 2019, the Company’s effective tax rates included the estimated impact of $13.0 million and $38.5 million, respectively, related to the GILTI provisions that were included as additional subpart F income, which was accounted for as a period cost. For the three and nine months ended  September 30, 2018, the Company’s effective tax rates included the estimated impact of $18.4 million and $46.2 million, respectively, related to the GILTI provisions. 
The Company’s uncertain tax positions relate to the allocation of income and deductions between the Company’s global entities and to the determination of the research and development tax credit. It is reasonably possible that over the next twelve-month period, the Company  may experience increases or decreases in its unrecognized tax benefits. However, it is not possible to determine either the magnitude or the range of increases or decreases at this time.   
 In  July 2015, the U.S. Tax Court issued an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, invalidating the Treasury regulations that require participants in qualified intercompany cost-sharing arrangements to share stock-based compensation costs. A final decision was issued by the Tax Court in  December 2015, and the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) appealed the decision in  June 2016. In  June 2019, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the cost-sharing regulations. In  July 2019, Altera filed a petition for rehearing en banc in the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the status of the current regulations, the Company has not recorded any adjustments as of  September 30, 2019. The Company will continue to monitor and evaluate the impact of any new developments on its financial statements.  
As of  September 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018, accrued dividends totaled $17.3 million and $12.8 million, respectively. 
The declaration of any future cash dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, and other factors that the Board of Directors  may deem relevant, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of the stockholders. 
The Company anticipates that cash used for future dividend payments will come from its domestic cash, cash generated from ongoing U.S. operations, and cash repatriated from its Bermuda subsidiary. Earnings from other foreign subsidiaries will continue to be indefinitely reinvested. 
Cash Dividend Equivalent Rights 
Under the Company’s stock plans, outstanding RSUs contain rights to receive cash dividend equivalents, which entitle employees who hold RSUs to the same dividend value per share as holders of common stock. The dividend equivalents are accumulated and paid to the employees when the underlying RSUs vest. Dividend equivalents accumulated on the underlying RSUs are forfeited if the employees do not fulfill the requisite service requirement and the awards do not vest. As of  September 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018, accrued dividend equivalents totaled $10.6 million and $8.4 million, respectively. 
  •   government policies and regulations on international trade policies and restrictions, including tariffs on imports of foreign goods;   
  •   export controls and trade and economic sanctions and regulations and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets, particularly in China;   
  •   our ability to obtain governmental licenses and approvals for international trading activities or technology transfers, including export licenses;     
  •   market reactions to merger and acquisition activities in the semiconductor industry, and rumors or expectations of further consolidation in the industry;   
  •   investments in sales and marketing resources to enter new markets;   
  •   costs of increasing wafer capacity and qualifying additional third-party wafer fabrication facilities;   
  •   our ability to pay quarterly cash dividends to stockholders; and   
  •   changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets.     
  •   our ability to develop new process technologies and achieve volume production;   
  •   changes in manufacturing yields;     
  •   movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates or tax rates;   
  •   the impact of the 2017 Tax Act on our income tax provision and cash flows;     
  •   the impact of tariffs on imports of foreign goods; and   
  •   stock-based compensation charges primarily resulting from performance and market-based equity awards granted to our employees.     
Since the beginning of 2018, there has been increasing rhetoric, in some cases coupled with legislative or executive action, from several U.S. and foreign leaders regarding tariffs against foreign imports of certain materials. More specifically, there have been several rounds of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in 2018 and 2019, some of which prompted retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods. The institution of trade tariffs both globally and between the U.S. and China specifically carries the risk of negatively affecting China’s overall economic condition, which could have a negative impact on us as we have significant operations in China. Furthermore, imposition of tariffs could cause a decrease in the sales of our products to customers located in China or other customers selling to Chinese end users, which would directly impact our business and operating results. 
As a global company headquartered in the U.S., we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that could limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including, in certain cases, dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not materially limited our operations or our sales, but could materially limit them in the future which would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities. We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments. Although these restrictions and laws have not materially restricted our operations in the recent past, there is a significant risk that they could do so in the future, which would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, U.S. laws and regulations and sanctions or threat of sanctions that could limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services to our customers may also encourage our customers to develop their own solutions to replace our products or seek to obtain a greater supply of similar or substitute products from our competitors that are not subject to these restrictions, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 
Moreover, U.S. government’s actions targeting exports of certain technologies to China are becoming more pervasive. For example, in May 2019, President Trump issued an executive order that invoked national emergency economic powers to implement a framework to regulate the acquisition or transfer of information communications technology in transactions that imposed undue national security risks. These actions could lead to additional restrictions on the export of products that include or enable certain technologies, including products we provide to China-based customers. 
We may not be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. 
  •   our sales, which because of our turns business, are difficult to accurately forecast;     
  •   the cancellation or rescheduling of our customers’ orders, which may occur without significant penalty to our customers;   
  •   changes in general demand for electronic products as a result of worldwide macroeconomic conditions;   
  •   changes in revenue mix between OEMs, ODMs, distributors and value-added resellers;   
  •   changes in product mix, and actual and potential product liability;     
We may not experience growth rates comparable to past years. 
Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. 
In recent years, there has been a trend toward semiconductor industry consolidation. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to improve the leverage of growing research and development costs, strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, or become unable to continue operations unless they find an acquirer or consolidate with another company. In addition, companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. We believe that semiconductor industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 
We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products or in penetrating new markets required to maintain or expand our business. 
As we develop new product lines, we must adapt to market conditions that are unfamiliar to us, such as competitors and distribution channels that are different from those we have known in the past. Some of our new product lines require us to re-equip our labs to test parameters we have not tested in the past. If we are unable to adapt rapidly to these new and additional conditions, we may not be able to successfully penetrate new markets. 
Our customers generally have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources. Some customers have traditionally used these resources to develop their own products internally. The future prospects for our products in these markets are dependent in part upon our customers' acceptance of our products as an alternative to their internally developed products. Future sales prospects also are dependent upon acceptance of third-party sourcing for products as an alternative to in-house development. Customers may in the future continue to use internally developed components. They also may decide to develop or acquire components, technologies or products that are similar to, or that may be substituted for, our products. If our customers fail to accept our products as an alternative, if they develop or acquire the technology to develop such components internally rather than purchase our products, or if we are otherwise unable to develop or maintain strong relationships with them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
We derive most of our revenue from direct or indirect sales to customers in Asia and have significant operations in Asia, which may expose us to political, cultural, regulatory, economic, foreign exchange, and operational risks. 
  •   changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including tax laws in the U.S. and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products, and government action to restrict our ability to sell to foreign customers where sales of products may require export license;     
Historically, we have generated most of our revenue from a limited number of customers, including distributors. For example, sales to our largest distributor accounted for 24% and 23% of our total revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. We continue to rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. Because we rely on a limited number of customers for significant percentages of our revenue, a decrease in demand or significant pricing pressure for our products from any of our major customers for any reason (including due to competition, market conditions, catastrophic events or otherwise) could have a materially adverse impact on our financial conditions and results of operations. 
We receive a significant portion of our revenue from distribution arrangements, value-added resellers and direct customers, and the loss of any one of these distributors, value-added resellers or direct customers or failure to collect a receivable from them could adversely affect our operations and financial position. 
We market our products through distribution arrangements and value-added resellers and through our direct sales and applications support organization to customers that include OEMs, ODMs and electronic manufacturing service providers. Receivables from our customers are generally not secured by any type of collateral and are subject to the risk of being uncollectible. Sales to our largest distributor accounted for 24% and 23% of our total revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. Significant deterioration in the liquidity or financial condition of any of our major customers or any group of our customers could have a material adverse impact on the collectability of our accounts receivable and our future operating results. We primarily conduct our sales on a purchase order basis, and we do not have any long-term supply commitments.  
Due to the nature of our business as a component supplier, we may have difficulty both in accurately predicting our future revenue and appropriately managing our expenses. 
Our ability to increase product sales and revenue may be constrained by the manufacturing capacity of our suppliers. 
While certain aspects of our relationship with these suppliers are contractual, many important aspects of this relationship depend on our suppliers’ continued cooperation and our management of the supplier relationships. In addition, the fabrication of ICs is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous ICs on each wafer to be non-functional. This could potentially reduce yields. The failure of our suppliers to supply us wafers at acceptable yields could prevent us from fulfilling our customer orders for our products and would likely cause a decline in our revenue.  
We might not be able to deliver our products on a timely basis if our relationships with our assembly and test subcontractors are disrupted or terminated. 
We do not have direct control over product delivery schedules or product quality because all of our products are assembled by third-party subcontractors and a portion of our testing is currently performed by third-party subcontractors. Also, due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assembly and test subcontractors, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we were forced to find alternate third parties to assemble or test our products. In addition, events such as global economic crises may materially impact our assembly suppliers’ ability to operate. Any future product delivery delays or disruptions in our relationships with our subcontractors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.  
There may be unanticipated costs associated with adding to or supplementing our third-party suppliers’ manufacturing capacity. 
These and other risks may affect the ultimate cost and timing of any expansion of our third-party suppliers’ capacity. 
The complexity of calculating our tax provision may result in errors that could result in restatements of our financial statements. 
Implementation of an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) or other information technology systems could result in significant disruptions to our operations. 
From time to time, we may implement new ERP software solutions or upgrade existing systems. Implementation of these solutions and systems is highly dependent on coordination of system providers and internal business teams. We may experience difficulties as we transition to these new or upgraded systems and processes, including loss or corruption of financial, business or customer data. In addition, transitioning to these new systems requires significant capital investments and personnel resources. Difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or any significant system failures could disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition or results of operations. 
Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential and proprietary information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions and delays that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, financial reporting or other critical functions. 
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data on our internal systems, network and servers, such as proprietary business and financial information, and confidential data pertaining to our customers, suppliers and business partners. The secure maintenance of sensitive information on our networks and the protection features of our solutions are both critical to our operations and business strategy. We devote significant resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data. However, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our systems and solutions, any destructive or intrusive breach could compromise our networks, creating system disruptions or slowdowns, and the information stored on our networks could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. If any of these types of security breaches were to occur and we were unable to protect sensitive data, our relationships with our business partners and customers could be materially damaged, our reputation could be materially harmed, and we could be exposed to a risk of litigation and possible significant liability. 
Future legal proceedings may divert our financial and management resources. 
We rely heavily on our proprietary technologies. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain protection of certain proprietary technologies used in our products. We pursue patents for some of our new products and unique technologies, and we also rely on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as our employees’ commitment to confidentiality and loyalty, to protect our technology, know-how and processes. Despite the precautions we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our current or future technologies or products, or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technologies, including through patents. However, there can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that our patent applications will lead to issued patents, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior products or technologies, or that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others. Furthermore, the laws of the countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could materially harm our business.  
We face risks in connection with our internal control over financial reporting. 
Our customers generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance, and reliability that our products must meet. ICs as complex as ours often encounter development delays and may contain undetected defects or failures when first introduced or after commencement of commercial shipments, which might require product replacement or recall. Further, our third-party manufacturing processes or changes thereof, or raw material used in the manufacturing processes may cause our products to fail. We have from time to time in the past experienced product quality, performance or reliability problems. Our standard warranty period is generally one to two years, which exposes us to significant risks of claims for defects and failures. If defects and failures occur in our products, we could experience lost revenue, increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with customer support, cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, and product returns or discounts, any of which would harm our operating results. 
In addition, product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our technology or products. Although we currently have insurance, there can be no assurance that we have obtained a sufficient amount of insurance coverage, that asserted claims will be within the scope of coverage of the insurance, or that we will have sufficient resources to satisfy any asserted claims. 
Our products incorporate commodities such as gold, copper and silicon. An increase in the price or a decrease in the availability of these commodities and similar commodities that we use could negatively impact our business and results of operations. 
Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other foreign currencies, including the Renminbi, may adversely affect results of operations. 
Our manufacturing and packaging suppliers are and will continue to be primarily located in China for the foreseeable future. If the value of the Renminbi rises against the U.S. Dollar, there could be an increase in our manufacturing costs relative to competitors who have manufacturing facilities located in the U.S., which could adversely affect our operations. In addition, our sales are primarily denominated in the U.S. Dollar. If the value of the U.S Dollar rises against other currencies, it may adversely affect the demand for our products in international markets, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. 
We incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses related to the timing of payments for transactions between the U.S. and our foreign subsidiaries, which are reported in interest and other income in the statements of operations. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the foreign currencies could increase the amount of foreign currency exchange losses we record, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 
Our business is subject to various significant laws and other legal requirements imposed by the U.S. and other countries we conduct business with, including export control laws such as the Export Administration Act, the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) and other laws, regulations and requirements governing international trade and technology transfer. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have generally become more stringent over time. We may be required to incur significant expense to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. In addition, if our customers fail to comply with these regulations, we may be required to suspend sales to these customers, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We must conform the manufacture and distribution of our products to various laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in many countries as these requirements change. If we fail to comply with these requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, we could be required to pay civil penalties, face criminal prosecution and, in some cases, be prohibited from distributing our products commercially until the products are brought into compliance. 
Environmental laws and regulations could cause a disruption in our business and operations. 
We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making manufacturers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various European Union member countries and countries in Asia. There can be no assurance that similar laws and regulations will not be implemented in other jurisdictions resulting in additional costs, possible delays in delivering products, and even the discontinuance of existing and planned future products if the cost were to become prohibitive. 
We and our manufacturing partners are or will be subject to extensive Chinese government regulation, and the benefit of various incentives from Chinese governments that we and our manufacturing partners receive may be reduced or eliminated, which could increase our costs or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China. 
We have manufacturing and testing facilities in China and most of our manufacturing partners are located in China. The Chinese government has broad discretion and authority to regulate the technology industry in China. Additionally, China’s government has implemented policies from time to time to regulate economic expansion in China. It exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 
Personal privacy, cyber security, and data protection are becoming increasingly significant issues in China. To address these issues, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress promulgated the Cyber Security Law of the People’s Republic of China (the “Cyber Security Law”), which took effect on June 1, 2017. The Cyber Security Law sets forth various requirements relating to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of data, among other things. Various Chinese agencies are expected to issue additional regulations in the future to define these requirements more precisely. These requirements may increase our costs of compliance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these regulatory requirements. Any failure to comply with the Cyber Security Law and the relevant regulations and policies could result in further cost and liability to us and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, increased costs to comply with, and other burdens imposed by, the Cyber Security Law and relevant regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our suppliers, vendors and other service providers, as well as our customers, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 
The Chinese government and provincial and local governments also have provided, and continue to provide, various incentives to encourage the development of the semiconductor industry in China. Such incentives include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures, some or all of which may be available to our manufacturing partners and to us with respect to our facilities in China. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time. Any such reduction or elimination of incentives currently provided to us and our manufacturing partners could adversely affect our business and operating results.  
There are inherent risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing and testing facilities in China, which could increase product costs or cause a delay in product shipments. 
  •   our customers usually complete an in-depth technical evaluation of our products before they place a purchase order;   
  •   the commercial adoption of our products by OEMs and ODMs is typically limited during the initial release of their product to evaluate product performance and consumer demand;   
  •   our products must be designed into our customers’ products or systems; and   
  •   the development and commercial introduction of our customers’ products incorporating new technologies frequently are delayed.     
In addition, if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. Research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenue, which could negatively impact our financial results. In order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development. 
The loss of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management personnel could affect our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. 
Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. We are particularly dependent on the continued services of our key executives, including Michael Hsing, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who founded our company and developed our proprietary process technology. In addition, personnel with highly skilled analog and mixed-signal design engineering expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with these skills is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain existing key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, integrating or retaining other highly qualified personnel with critical capabilities in the future. If we are unable to retain the services of existing key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees quickly enough to meet the demands of our business, including design cycles, our business could be harmed. Furthermore, if we lose key personnel, the search for a qualified replacement and the transition could interrupt our operations as the search could take us longer than expected and divert management resources, and the newly hired employee could take longer than expected to integrate into the team. 
We intend to continue to expand our operations, which may strain our resources and increase our operating expenses. 
In addition, third parties may be interested in acquiring us. We will consider and discuss such transactions as we deem appropriate. Such potential transactions may diver the attention of management, and cause us to incur various costs and expenses in investigating and evaluating such transactions, whether or not they are consummated. 
We may issue additional shares of common stock in the future in order to raise additional capital to fund our global operations or in connection with an acquisition. We also issue restricted stock units to employees, which convert into shares of common stock upon vesting. Any issuance of our common stock may result in immediate dilution to our stockholders. In addition, the issuance of a significant amount of our common stock may result in additional regulatory requirements, such as stockholder approval. 
We compete against many companies with substantially greater financial and other resources, and our market share may be reduced if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively. 
The analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and we expect competitive pressures to continue. Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our business will depend on our ability to continue to recruit applications and design talent, our ability to introduce new products, and our ability to maintain the rate at which we introduce these new products. We compete with domestic and non-domestic semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products. We are in direct and active competition, with respect to one or more of our product lines, with many manufacturers of such products, of varying size and financial strength. The number of our competitors has grown due to the expansion of the market segments in which we participate.  
There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts. 
In June 2014, the Board of Directors approved a dividend program pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. The declaration of any future cash dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. 
Major earthquakes or other natural disasters and resulting systems outages may cause us significant losses. 
 Table of Contents   
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
