See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by Monolithic Power Systems, Inc. (the “Company” or “MPS”) in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted in accordance with these accounting principles, rules and regulations. The information in this report should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018. 
Except for the changes related to revenue recognition discussed in “Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements” and in Note 2 below, there have been no other changes to the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the significant accounting policies described in the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The standard’s core principle is that an entity will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The Company adopted the standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of December 31, 2017. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior-period amounts have not been retrospectively adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with Topic 605, Revenue Recognition. 
The Company recorded a net increase to the opening balance of retained earnings of $0.4 million, net of tax, as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative effect of initially applying Topic 606, primarily related to the change in revenue recognition for three U.S.-based distributors. Sales to these distributors are transacted under the terms of agreements providing price adjustment rights. Prior to the adoption of Topic 606, revenue and costs related to these sales were deferred until the Company received notification from the distributors that the products had been sold to the end customers and the amount of price adjustments was fixed and finalized. Upon adoption of Topic 606, the transaction price takes into consideration the effect of variable consideration such as price adjustments, which are estimated and recorded at the time the promised goods are transferred to the distributors. Accordingly, effective January 1, 2018, the Company recognizes revenue at the time of shipment to the distributors, adjusted for an estimate of the price adjustments based on management’s review of historical data and other information available at the time. See Note 2 for further discussion. 
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows - Restricted Cash (Topic 230), which requires entities to show the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. The Company adopted the standard on January 1, 2018 and applied the guidance retrospectively to all periods presented. See Note 9 for further discussion. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted as of September 30, 2018 
In August 2018, the SEC issued Final Rule Release No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, which amends certain disclosure requirements, including the presentation of changes in stockholders’ equity and the dividend per share for interim periods. The final rule will be effective on November 5, 2018. The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption on its disclosures. 
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairment. The guidance removes step two of the goodwill impairment test, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation. A goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. Entities will continue to have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary. The standard will be applied prospectively, and will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption on its annual goodwill impairment test. 
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326), which introduces a model based on expected losses to estimate credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments. In addition, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Entities will apply the standard by recording a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings. The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and disclosures. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires entities to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheets for substantially all leases with a lease term greater than 12 months, including leases currently accounted for as operating leases. In addition, the standard applies to leases embedded in service or other arrangements. The standard requires modified retrospective adoption and will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company will adopt the standard on January 1, 2019. The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures, and expects to elect certain available transitional practical expedients. The Company anticipates recording assets and liabilities primarily related to its real estate leases on its Consolidated Balance Sheets, with no material impact to its Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
Revenue from Product Sales 
2017 amounts have not been adjusted under the modified retrospective method.    
The Company generates revenue primarily from product sales, which include assembled and tested integrated circuits, as well as dies in wafer form. The Company also generates royalty revenue from licensing arrangements and revenue from wafer testing services performed for third parties, which have not been significant in all periods presented. 
The Company sells its products primarily through third-party distributors, value-added resellers, original equipment manufacturers, original design manufacturers and electronic manufacturing service providers. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, approximately 87% and 88%, respectively, of the Company’s sales were made through distribution arrangements. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, approximately 87% and 88%, respectively, of the Company’s sales were made through distribution arrangements. These distribution arrangements contain enforceable rights and obligations specific to those distributors and not the end customers. Purchase orders, which are generally governed by sales agreements or the Company's standard terms of sale, state the final terms for unit price, quantity, shipping and payment agreed by both parties. The Company considers purchase orders to be the contracts with customers. The unit price as stated on the purchase orders is considered the observable, stand-alone selling price for the arrangements. 
Under Topic 606, the Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of the promised goods or services to its customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The Company excludes taxes assessed by government authorities, such as sales taxes, from revenue. 
Under certain consignment agreements, revenue is not recognized when the products are held at customers’ designated locations because the Company retains ownership and the customers do not have an unconditional obligation to pay. The Company recognizes revenue when the customers pull the products from the locations or after a 60-day period lapses, at which time control transfers to the customers and the Company invoices them for payment. 
The Company records variable consideration as a reduction to revenue in the same period the revenue is recognized. Three U.S.-based distributors have price adjustment rights when they sell the Company’s products to their end customers at a price that is lower than the distribution price invoiced by the Company. When the Company receives claims from the distributors that products have been sold to the end customers at the lower price, the Company issues the distributors credit memos for the price adjustments. The Company estimates the price adjustments based on analyses of historical claims, at both the distributor and product level, as well as an assessment of any known trends of product sales mix. Other U.S. distributors and non-U.S. distributors, which make up the majority of the Company’s total sales to distributors, do not have price adjustment rights. 
In addition, certain distributors have limited stock rotation rights that permit the return of a small percentage of the previous six months’ purchases. The Company estimates the stock rotation returns based on analyses of historical returns, and the current level of inventory in the distribution channel. The Company recognizes an asset for product returns which represents the right to recover products from the customers related to stock rotations, with a corresponding reduction to cost of goods sold. 
The Company records a receivable when it has an unconditional right to receive consideration after the performance obligations are satisfied. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, accounts receivable totaled $59.9 million and $38.0 million, respectively. To manage credit risk, management performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers’ financial condition. The Company did not recognize any impairment losses related to its receivables in any of the periods presented. 
For certain customers located in Asia, the Company requires cash payments two weeks before the products are scheduled to be shipped to the customers. The Company records these payments received in advance of performance as customer prepayments within current accrued liabilities. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, customer prepayments totaled $1.8 million and $4.7 million, respectively. The decrease in the customer prepayment balance for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 resulted from a decrease in unfulfilled customer orders for which the Company has received payments. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recognized $4.7 million of revenue that was included in the customer prepayment balance as of December 31, 2017. 
Contract Costs 
 The Company pays sales commissions based on the achievement of pre-determined product sales targets. As the Company recognizes product sales at a point in time, sales commissions are expensed as incurred. 
The Company generally provides one to two-year warranties against defects in materials and workmanship and will either repair the products, provide replacements at no charge to customers or issue a refund. As they are considered assurance-type warranties, the Company does not account for them as separate performance obligations. Warranty reserve requirements are generally based on a specific assessment of the products sold with warranties when a customer asserts a claim for warranty or a product defect.  
The Company’s standard payment terms generally require customers to pay 30 to 60 days after the Company satisfies the performance obligations. For those customers who are required to pay in advance, the Company satisfies the performance obligations typically within one quarter. The Company has elected not to determine whether contacts with customers contain significant financing components. 
As of September 30, 2018, the Company’s unsatisfied performance obligations primarily included products held in consignment arrangements and customer purchase orders for products that the Company has not yet shipped. Because the Company expects to fulfill these performance obligations within one year, the Company has elected not to disclose the amount of these remaining performance obligations or the timing of recognition. 
Changes to Financial Statement Line Items 
●   Under Topic 606, the Company recognizes revenue for three U.S.-based distributors upon shipment of the products to them, net of an estimated amount for price adjustments. Under Topic 605, the Company would have deferred the recognition of revenue and related costs for these U.S. distributors until the Company received notification from the distributors that the products had been sold to the end customers and the amount of price adjustments was fixed and finalized.   
●   Under Topic 606, the Company records assets for product returns within other current assets, which primarily represent the carrying value of inventory it expects to recover from customers related to stock rotation returns. Under Topic 605, such amounts would have been netted against the stock rotation reserve within current accrued liabilities.   
●   Under Topic 606, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of initially applying the standard to retained earnings. Under Topic 605, the Company would not have recorded this adjustment.    
2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2014 Plan”) 
The Board of Directors adopted the 2014 Plan in April 2013, and the stockholders approved it in June 2013. In October 2014, the Board of Directors approved certain amendments to the 2014 Plan. The 2014 Plan, as amended, became effective on November 13, 2014 and provides for the issuance of up to 5.5 million shares. The 2014 Plan will expire on November 13, 2024. As of September 30, 2018, 2.7 million shares remained available for future issuance under the 2014 Plan.  
Stock-Based Compensation Expense 
Restricted Stock Units 
Amount reflects the number of PSUs and MPSUs that may ultimately be earned based on management’s probability assessment of the achievement of performance conditions at each reporting period. In addition, MPSUs are subject to the achievement of market conditions.    
The intrinsic value related to vested RSUs was $13.9 million and $12.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The intrinsic value related to vested RSUs was $79.0 million and $61.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, the total intrinsic value of all outstanding RSUs was $465.9 million, based on the closing stock price of $125.53. As of September 30, 2018, unamortized compensation expense related to all outstanding RSUs was $89.3 million with a weighted-average remaining recognition period of approximately three years.  
Cash proceeds from vested PSUs with a purchase price feature totaled $9.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. There were no proceeds for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") granted 93,000 RSUs with time-based vesting conditions to non-executive employees and non-employee directors. The RSUs vest over four years for employees and one year for directors, subject to continued service with the Company. 
In February 2018, the Compensation Committee granted 188,000 PSUs to the executive officers, which represent a target number of shares to be awarded based on the Company’s average two-year (2018 and 2019) revenue growth rate compared against the analog industry’s average two-year revenue growth rate as published by the Semiconductor Industry Association (“2018 Executive PSUs”). The maximum number of shares that an executive officer can earn is 300% of the target number of the 2018 Executive PSUs. 50% of the 2018 Executive PSUs will vest in the first quarter of 2020 if the pre-determined performance goals are met during the performance period and approved by the Compensation Committee. The remaining 2018 Executive PSUs will vest over the following two years on a quarterly basis. Vesting is subject to the employees’ continued employment with the Company. Assuming the achievement of the highest level of performance goals, the total stock-based compensation cost for the 2018 Executive PSUs is $46.1 million. 
In February 2018, the Compensation Committee granted 44,000 PSUs to certain non-executive employees, which represent a target number of shares to be awarded based on the Company’s 2019 revenue goals for certain regions or product line divisions, or based on the Company’s average two-year (2018 and 2019) revenue growth rate compared against the analog industry’s average two-year revenue growth rate as published by the Semiconductor Industry Association (“2018 Non-Executive PSUs”). The maximum number of shares that an employee can earn is either 200% or 300% of the target number of the 2018 Non-Executive PSUs, depending on the job classification of the employee. 50% of the 2018 Non-Executive PSUs will vest in the first quarter of 2020 if the pre-determined performance goals are met during the performance period and approved by the Compensation Committee. The remaining 2018 Non-Executive PSUs will vest over the following two years on an annual or quarterly basis. Vesting is subject to the employees’ continued employment with the Company. Assuming the achievement of the highest level of performance goals, the total stock-based compensation cost for the 2018 Non-Executive PSUs, excluding cancelled shares, is $8.8 million. 
On December 31, 2015, the Compensation Committee granted 86,000 MPSUs to the executive officers and 41,000 MPSUs to certain non-executive employees, which represent a target number of shares to be awarded upon achievement of both market conditions and performance conditions (“2015 MPSUs”). The maximum number of shares that an employee can earn is 500% of the target number of the 2015 MPSUs. The 2015 MPSUs consist of four separate tranches with various performance periods ending on December 31, 2019. The first tranche contains market conditions only, which require the achievement of five stock price targets ranging from $71.36 to $95.57 with a performance period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2019. As of September 30, 2017, all five stock price targets for the first tranche have been achieved and approved by the Compensation Committee. 
Successful implementation of full digital solutions for certain power products.   
Successful implementation, and adoption by a key customer, of an integrated, software-based field-oriented control with sensors to motor drivers.   
Successful implementation of certain advanced power analog processes.   
Successful design wins and achievement of a specific level of revenue with a global networking customer.   
Achievement of a specific level of revenue with a global electronics manufacturer.   
Achievement of a specific level of market share with certain core power products.    
As of October 30, 2018, the first and the second operating metrics have been achieved and the determination of achievement was approved by the Compensation Committee. 
Subject to the employees’ continued employment with the Company, the 2015 MPSUs will fully vest on January 1, 2020 if the pre-determined individual market and performance goals in each tranche are met during the performance periods and approved by the Compensation Committee. In addition, the 2015 MPSUs contain sales restrictions on the vested shares by employees for up to two years. 
For the first tranche, stock-based compensation expense is being recognized over the requisite service period. For the second, third and fourth tranches, stock-based compensation expense for each tranche is recognized if an operating metric has been achieved, or if management believes it is probable that an operating metric will be achieved during the performance periods in each reporting period. As of October 30, 2018, two operating metrics have been achieved, and based on management’s quarterly assessment, one additional operating metric was considered probable of being achieved during the performance periods. Accordingly, stock-based compensation expense is being recognized for the second, third and fourth tranches over the requisite service period. 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) 
For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, 15,000 and 18,000 shares, respectively, were issued under the ESPP. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, 33,000 and 40,000 shares, respectively, were issued under the ESPP. As of September 30, 2018, 4.6 million shares were available for future issuance. 
Cash proceeds from the shares issued under the ESPP were $3.0 million and $2.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  
Inventories  
Other Current Assets 
Under Topic 606, “assets for product returns” primarily represent the carrying value of inventory the Company expects to recover from customers related to stock rotation returns. Prior to the adoption of Topic 606, such amounts were netted against the stock rotation reserve within current accrued liabilities. 
Other Long-Term Assets 
Accrued Liabilities 
Other Long-Term Liabilities 
There have been no changes in the balance of goodwill during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. 
Amortization expense is recorded in cost of revenue in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, amortization expense totaled $0.2 million and $0.5 million, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, amortization expense totaled $0.6 million and $1.5 million, respectively. 
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per share reflects the potential dilution that would occur if outstanding securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common shares, and calculated using the treasury stock method. Contingently issuable shares, including equity awards with performance conditions or market conditions, are considered outstanding common shares and included in the basic net income per share as of the date that all necessary conditions to earn the awards have been satisfied. Prior to the end of the contingency period, the number of contingently issuable shares included in the diluted net income per share is based on the number of shares, if any, that would be issuable under the terms of the arrangement at the end of the reporting period. 
The Company’s outstanding RSUs contain forfeitable rights to receive cash dividend equivalents, which are accumulated and paid to the employees when the underlying RSUs vest. Dividend equivalents accumulated on the underlying RSUs are forfeited if the employees do not fulfill their service requirement and the awards do not vest. Accordingly, these awards are not treated as participating securities in the net income per share calculation.  
The Company operates in one reportable segment that includes the design, development, marketing and sale of high-performance analog solutions for the consumer, computing and storage, industrial, automotive and communications markets. The Company’s chief operating decision maker is its Chief Executive Officer, who reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. The Company derives a majority of its revenue from sales to customers located outside North America, with geographic revenue based on the customers’ ship-to locations.  
The Company’s agreements with these third-party distributors and value-added reseller were made in the ordinary course of business and may be terminated with or without cause by these customers with advance notice. Although the Company may experience a short-term disruption in the distribution of its products and a short-term decline in revenue if its agreement with any of these customers was terminated, the Company believes that such termination would not have a material adverse effect on its financial statements because it would be able to engage alternative distributors, resellers and other distribution channels to deliver its products to end customers within a short period following the termination of the agreement with the customer.  
The Company is a party to actions and proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including potential litigation initiated by its shareholders, challenges to the enforceability or validity of its intellectual property, claims that the Company’s products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and employment matters. These proceedings often involve complex questions of fact and law and may require the expenditure of significant funds and the diversion of other resources to prosecute and defend. The Company defends itself vigorously against any such claims. As of September 30, 2018, there were no material pending legal proceedings to which the Company was a party. 
Restricted cash includes a security deposit that is set aside in a bank account and cannot be withdrawn by the Company under the terms of a lease agreement. The restriction will end and any unused amount will be returned to the Company upon the expiration of the lease. 
  ●   Level 1—includes instruments with quoted prices in active markets for identical assets.   
  ●   Level 3—includes instruments for which the valuations are based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.    
As of September 30, 2018, the Company has not adjusted its provisional tax estimates related to the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017 (the “2017 Tax Act”) that were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017. These amounts remained as estimates and, as permitted by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, they will be refined through December 2018 based on the Company’s ongoing analysis of data and tax positions along with new guidance from regulators and interpretation of the law. 
The income tax provision for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $4.6 million, or 12.8% of pre-tax income, and $8.2 million, or 9.5% of pre-tax income, respectively. The effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate primarily because foreign income generated by the Company’s subsidiaries in Bermuda and China was taxed at lower rates, and because of certain stock-based compensation deductions. In addition, the effective tax rate was impacted by the inclusion of the global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") under the 2017 Tax Act. 
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company’s effective tax rate included the estimated impact of $18.4 million and $46.2 million, respectively, related to the GILTI provisions that was included as additional subpart F income, which was accounted for as a period cost. In addition, during the first quarter of 2018, the Company paid the 2018 installment of $1.9 million related to the deemed repatriation transition tax liability. As of September 30, 2018, $1.9 million of the transition tax liability was recorded in current accrued liabilities and $20.1 million was recorded in long-term income tax liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
The income tax provision for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $1.4 million, or 5.8% of pre-tax income, and $3.1 million, or 5.5% of pre-tax income, respectively. The effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate primarily because foreign income generated by the Company’s subsidiaries in Bermuda and China was taxed at lower rates. In addition, the effective tax rate was impacted by changes in the valuation allowance primarily related to stock-based compensation. 
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had $18.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits, $11.2 million of which would affect its effective tax rate if recognized after considering the valuation allowance. At December 31, 2017, the Company had $16.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits, $9.1 million of which would affect its effective tax rate if recognized after considering the valuation allowance.  
Uncertain tax positions relate to the allocation of income and deductions between the Company’s global entities and to the determination of the research and development tax credit. It is reasonably possible that over the next twelve-month period, the Company may experience increases or decreases in its unrecognized tax benefits. However, it is not possible to determine either the magnitude or the range of increases or decreases at this time. 
The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to uncertain tax positions in its income tax provision. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company has $0.8 million and $0.5 million, respectively, of accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions, which were recorded in long-term income tax liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
In July 2018, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals overturned the U.S. Tax Court’s unanimous 2015 decision in Altera v. Commissioner, holding that the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") did not violate the rule-making procedures required by the Administrative Procedures Act. In the case, the taxpayer challenged IRS regulations that required participants in qualified cost sharing arrangements to share stock based compensation costs. The Tax Court had invalidated those regulations, in part because the Treasury Department failed to adequately consider significant taxpayer comments when adopting them. In August 2018, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals withdrew its July 2018 opinion. The Company will continue to monitor developments related to this case and the potential impact on its financial statements. 
The amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were recorded in interest and other income, net, in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, accrued dividends totaled $12.7 million and $8.3 million, respectively. 
The declaration of any future cash dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, statutory requirements of Delaware law, and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem relevant, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of the stockholders. 
The Company anticipates that cash used for future dividend payments will come from its current domestic cash and cash generated from ongoing U.S. operations, as well as cash to be repatriated from its Bermuda subsidiary. Earnings from other foreign subsidiaries will continue to be indefinitely reinvested.  
Cash Dividend Equivalent Rights 
Under the Company’s stock plans, outstanding RSUs contain rights to receive cash dividend equivalents, which entitle employees who hold RSUs to the same dividend value per share as holders of common stock. The dividend equivalents are accumulated and paid to the employees when the underlying RSUs vest. Dividend equivalents accumulated on the underlying RSUs are forfeited if the employees do not fulfill their service requirement and the awards do not vest. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, accrued dividend equivalents totaled $7.8 million and $5.8 million, respectively. 
Employee Equity Awards 
In October 2018, the Compensation Committee granted 60,000 MSUs to the executive officers and 60,000 MSUs to certain non-executive employees, which represent a target number of shares to be awarded upon achievement of stock price targets (“2018 MSUs”). The maximum number of shares that an employee can earn is 500% of the target number of the 2018 MSUs if the Company achieves five stock price targets ranging from $140 to $172. The performance period for the first two stock price targets is from October 26, 2018 to December 31, 2021, and the performance period for the last three price targets is from October 26, 2018 to December 31, 2023. 
Subject to the employees’ continued employment with the Company, the 2018 MSUs will fully vest on January 1, 2024 if the pre-determined stock price targets are met during the performance periods and approved by the Compensation Committee. In addition, the 2018 MSUs contain sales restrictions on the vested shares by employees for up to two years. 
In October 2018, the Compensation Committee granted 53,000 PSUs to certain non-executive employees, which represent a target number of shares to be awarded based on the Company’s 2020 revenue goals for certain regions or product line divisions, or based on the Company’s average two-year (2019 and 2020) revenue growth rate compared against the analog industry’s average two-year revenue growth rate as published by the Semiconductor Industry Association (“2019 Non-Executive PSUs”). The maximum number of shares that an employee can earn is either 200% or 300% of the target number of the 2019 Non-Executive PSUs, depending on the job classification of the employee. 50% of the 2019 Non-Executive PSUs will vest in the first quarter of 2021 if the pre-determined performance goals are met during the performance period and approved by the Compensation Committee. The remaining 2019 Non-Executive PSUs will vest over the following two years on an annual or quarterly basis. Vesting is subject to the employees’ continued employment with the Company. 
Since the beginning of 2018, there has been increasing rhetoric, in some cases coupled with legislative or executive action, from several U.S. and foreign leaders regarding tariffs against foreign imports of certain materials. More specifically, there have been three rounds of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July, August and September 2018 (some of which prompted retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods) and with an additional U.S. tariff rate increase scheduled to take effect in January 2019. The institution of trade tariffs both globally and between the U.S. and China specifically carries the risk of negatively affecting China’s overall economic condition, which could have a negative impact on us as we have significant operations in China. Furthermore, imposition of tariffs could cause a decrease in the sales of our products to customers located in China or other customers selling to Chinese end users, which would directly impact our business and operating results. 
We may not be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. 
We may not experience growth rates comparable to past years. 
Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. 
In recent years, there has been a trend toward semiconductor industry consolidation. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to improve the leverage of growing research and development costs, strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, or become unable to continue operations unless they find an acquirer or consolidate with another company. In addition, companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. We believe that semiconductor industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 
We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products or in penetrating new markets required to maintain or expand our business. 
As we develop new product lines, we must adapt to market conditions that are unfamiliar to us, such as competitors and distribution channels that are different from those we have known in the past. Some of our new product lines require us to re-equip our labs to test parameters we have not tested in the past. If we are unable to adapt rapidly to these new and additional conditions, we may not be able to successfully penetrate new markets. 
Our customers generally have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources. Some customers have traditionally used these resources to develop their own products internally. The future prospects for our products in these markets are dependent in part upon our customers' acceptance of our products as an alternative to their internally developed products. Future sales prospects also are dependent upon acceptance of third-party sourcing for products as an alternative to in-house development. Customers may in the future continue to use internally developed components. They also may decide to develop or acquire components, technologies or products that are similar to, or that may be substituted for, our products. If our customers fail to accept our products as an alternative, if they develop or acquire the technology to develop such components internally rather than purchase our products, or if we are otherwise unable to develop or maintain strong relationships with them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
We derive most of our revenue from direct or indirect sales to customers in Asia and have significant operations in Asia, which may expose us to political, cultural, regulatory, economic, foreign exchange, and operational risks. 
Historically, we have generated most of our revenue from a limited number of customers, including distributors. For example, sales to our largest distributor accounted for 23% and 21% of our total revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. We continue to rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. Because we rely on a limited number of customers for significant percentages of our revenue, a decrease in demand or significant pricing pressure for our products from any of our major customers for any reason (including due to competition, market conditions, catastrophic events or otherwise) could have a materially adverse impact on our financial conditions and results of operations. 
We market our products through distribution arrangements and value-added resellers and through our direct sales and applications support organization to customers that include OEMs, ODMs and electronic manufacturing service providers (“EMSs”). Receivables from our customers are generally not secured by any type of collateral and are subject to the risk of being uncollectible. Sales to our largest distributor accounted for 23% and 21% of our total revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively. Significant deterioration in the liquidity or financial condition of any of our major customers or any group of our customers could have a material adverse impact on the collectability of our accounts receivable and our future operating results. We primarily conduct our sales on a purchase order basis, and we do not have any long-term supply commitments.  
Our ability to increase product sales and revenue may be constrained by the manufacturing capacity of our suppliers. 
While certain aspects of our relationship with these suppliers are contractual, many important aspects of this relationship depend on our suppliers’ continued cooperation and our management of the supplier relationships. In addition, the fabrication of ICs is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous ICs on each wafer to be non-functional. This could potentially reduce yields. The failure of our suppliers to supply us wafers at acceptable yields could prevent us from fulfilling our customer orders for our products and would likely cause a decline in our revenue.  
We do not have direct control over product delivery schedules or product quality because all of our products are assembled by third-party subcontractors and a portion of our testing is currently performed by third-party subcontractors. Also, due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assembly and test subcontractors, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we were forced to find alternate third parties to assemble or test our products. In addition, events such as global economic crises may materially impact our assembly suppliers’ ability to operate. Any future product delivery delays or disruptions in our relationships with our subcontractors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.  
There may be unanticipated costs associated with adding to or supplementing our third-party suppliers’ manufacturing capacity. 
These and other risks may affect the ultimate cost and timing of any expansion of our third-party suppliers’ capacity. 
The complexity of calculating our tax provision may result in errors that could result in restatements of our financial statements. 
Implementation of an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) or other information technology systems could result in significant disruptions to our operations. 
From time to time, we may implement new ERP software solutions or upgrade existing systems. Implementation of these solutions and systems is highly dependent on coordination of system providers and internal business teams. We may experience difficulties as we transition to these new or upgraded systems and processes, including loss or corruption of financial, business or customer data. In addition, transitioning to these new systems requires significant capital investments and personnel resources. Difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or significant system failures could disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition or results of operations. 
Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential and proprietary information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions and delays that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. 
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data on our internal systems, network and servers, such as proprietary business and financial information, and confidential data pertaining to our customers, suppliers and business partners. The secure maintenance of sensitive information on our networks and the protection features of our solutions are both critical to our operations and business strategy. We devote significant resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data. However, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our systems and solutions, any destructive or intrusive breach could compromise our networks, creating system disruptions or slowdowns, and the information stored on our networks could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. If any of these types of security breaches were to occur and we were unable to protect sensitive data, our relationships with our business partners and customers could be materially damaged, our reputation could be materially harmed, and we could be exposed to a risk of litigation and possible significant liability. 
Future legal proceedings may divert our financial and management resources. 
We rely heavily on our proprietary technologies. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain protection of certain proprietary technologies used in our products. We pursue patents for some of our new products and unique technologies, and we also rely on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as our employees’ commitment to confidentiality and loyalty, to protect our technology, know-how and processes. Despite the precautions we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our current or future technologies or products, or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technologies, including through patents. However, there can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that our patent applications will lead to issued patents, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior products or technologies, or that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others. Furthermore, the laws of the countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could materially harm our business.  
The market for government-backed student loan auction-rate securities has suffered a decline in liquidity which may impact the liquidity and potential value of our investment portfolio. 
We face risks in connection with our internal control over financial reporting. 
Our customers generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance, and reliability that our products must meet. ICs as complex as ours often encounter development delays and may contain undetected defects or failures when first introduced or after commencement of commercial shipments, which might require product replacement or recall. Further, our third-party manufacturing processes or changes thereof, or raw material used in the manufacturing processes may cause our products to fail. We have from time to time in the past experienced product quality, performance or reliability problems. Our standard warranty period is generally one to two years, which exposes us to significant risks of claims for defects and failures. If defects and failures occur in our products, we could experience lost revenue, increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with customer support, cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, and product returns or discounts, any of which would harm our operating results. 
In addition, product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our technology or products. Although we currently have insurance, there can be no assurance that we have obtained a sufficient amount of insurance coverage, that asserted claims will be within the scope of coverage of the insurance, or that we will have sufficient resources to satisfy any asserted claims. 
Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other foreign currencies, including the Renminbi, may adversely affect results of operations. 
Our manufacturing and packaging suppliers are and will continue to be primarily located in China for the foreseeable future. If the value of the Renminbi rises against the U.S. Dollar, there could be an increase in our manufacturing costs relative to competitors who have manufacturing facilities located in the U.S., which could adversely affect our operations. In addition, our sales are primarily denominated in the U.S. Dollar. If the value of the U.S Dollar rises against other currencies, it may adversely affect the demand for our products in international markets, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. 
We incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses related to the timing of payments for transactions between the U.S. and our foreign subsidiaries, which are reported in interest and other income in the statements of operations. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the foreign currencies could increase the amount of foreign currency exchange losses we record, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 
Our business is subject to various significant laws and other legal requirements imposed by the U.S. and other countries we conduct business with, including export control laws such as the Export Administration Act, the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR") and other laws, regulations and requirements governing international trade and technology transfer. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have generally become more stringent over time. We may be required to incur significant expense to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. In addition, if our customers fail to comply with these regulations, we may be required to suspend sales to these customers, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We must conform the manufacture and distribution of our products to various laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in many countries as these requirements change. If we fail to comply with these requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, we could be required to pay civil penalties, face criminal prosecution and, in some cases, be prohibited from distributing our products commercially until the products are brought into compliance. 
Environmental laws and regulations could cause a disruption in our business and operations. 
We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making manufacturers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various European Union member countries and countries in Asia. There can be no assurance that similar laws and regulations will not be implemented in other jurisdictions resulting in additional costs, possible delays in delivering products, and even the discontinuance of existing and planned future product replacements if the cost were to become prohibitive. 
We and our manufacturing partners are or will be subject to extensive Chinese government regulation, and the benefit of various incentives from Chinese governments that we and our manufacturing partners receive may be reduced or eliminated, which could increase our costs or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China. 
We have manufacturing and testing facilities in China and most of our manufacturing partners are located in China. The Chinese government has broad discretion and authority to regulate the technology industry in China. Additionally, China’s government has implemented policies from time to time to regulate economic expansion in China. It exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 
Personal privacy, cyber security, and data protection are becoming increasingly significant issues in China. To address these issues, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress promulgated the Cyber Security Law of the People’s Republic of China (the “Cyber Security Law”), which took effect on June 1, 2017. The Cyber Security Law sets forth various requirements relating to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of data, among other things. Various Chinese agencies are expected to issue additional regulations in the future to define these requirements more precisely. These requirements may increase our costs of compliance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these regulatory requirements. Any failure to comply with the Cyber Security Law and the relevant regulations and policies could result in further cost and liability to us and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, increased costs to comply with, and other burdens imposed by, the Cyber Security Law and relevant regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our suppliers, vendors and other service providers, as well as our customers, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 
The Chinese government and provincial and local governments also have provided, and continue to provide, various incentives to encourage the development of the semiconductor industry in China. Such incentives include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures, some or all of which may be available to our manufacturing partners and to us with respect to our facilities in China. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time. Any such reduction or elimination of incentives currently provided to our manufacturing partners could adversely affect our business and operating results.  
      •   our customers usually complete an in-depth technical evaluation of our products before they place a purchase order;   
      •   the commercial adoption of our products by OEMs and ODMs is typically limited during the initial release of their product to evaluate product performance and consumer demand;   
      •   our products must be designed into our customers’ products or systems; and,   
      •   the development and commercial introduction of our customers’ products incorporating new technologies frequently are delayed.    
In addition, if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. Research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenue, which could negatively impact our financial results. In order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development. 
Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. We are particularly dependent on the continued services of our key executives, including Michael Hsing, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who founded our company and developed our proprietary process technology. In addition, personnel with highly skilled analog and mixed-signal design engineering expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with these skills is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain existing key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, integrating or retaining other highly qualified personnel with critical capabilities in the future. If we are unable to retain the services of existing key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees quickly enough to meet the demands of our business, including design cycles, our business could be harmed. Furthermore, if we lose key personnel, the search for a qualified replacement and the transition could interrupt our operations as the search could take us longer than expected and divert management resources, and the newly hired employee could take longer than expected to integrate into the team. 
We intend to continue to expand our operations, which may strain our resources and increase our operating expenses. 
In addition, third parties may be interested in acquiring us. We will consider and discuss such transactions as we deem appropriate. Such potential transactions may diver the attention of management, and cause us to incur various costs and expenses in investigating and evaluating such transactions, whether or not they are consummated. 
We may issue additional shares of common stock in the future in order to raise additional capital to fund our global operations or in connection with an acquisition. We also issue restricted stock units to employees, which convert into shares of common stock upon vesting. Any issuance of our common stock may result in immediate dilution to our stockholders. In addition, the issuance of a significant amount of our common stock may result in additional regulatory requirements, such as stockholder approval. 
We compete against many companies with substantially greater financial and other resources, and our market share may be reduced if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively. 
The analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and we expect competitive pressures to continue. Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our business will depend on our ability to continue to recruit applications and design talent, our ability to introduce new products, and our ability to maintain the rate at which we introduce these new products. We compete with domestic and non-domestic semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products. We are in direct and active competition, with respect to one or more of our product lines, with many manufacturers of such products, of varying size and financial strength. The number of our competitors has grown due to the expansion of the market segments in which we participate.  
There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts. 
In June 2014, the Board of Directors approved a dividend program pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. The declaration of any future cash dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, statutory requirements of Delaware law, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. 
Major earthquakes or other natural disasters and resulting systems outages may cause us significant losses. 
Table of Contents  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
