fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
Fiscal years 2018 and 2017 each contain(ed) 52 weeks.
The second quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on July 1, 2018 and the second quarter of fiscal 2017 ended on July 2, 2017.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
The year-end condensed balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP.
This standard update intends to increase the transparency and improve comparability by requiring entities to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases, with certain exceptions.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)."
Collectively, we refer to ASU No.
2014-09, its related amendments, and Subtopic 340-40 as "Topic 606."
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (i.e., January 1, 2018).
We reclassified the sales return reserve to current liabilities presented as "Price adjustment and other revenue reserves" from the allowance for accounts receivable due to the adoption of Topic 606.
The Company's revenue arrangements do not contain significant financing components.
We then select an appropriate method for measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, usually costs incurred to date relative to the total expected costs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation.
These adjustments and allowances are accounted for as variable consideration.
Our non-recurring engineering ("NRE") contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations.


item2.txt
Cypress’ superior connectivity, flexible computing, fail-safe storage, and secure, ultra-low power solutions help developers bring their smart products to market quickly and easily.
Cypress is committed to providing customers with the best support and development resources enabling them to disrupt markets by creating new product categories in record time.
Memory Products Division  MPD focuses on specialized, high-performance parallel and serial NOR flash memories, NAND flash memories, static random access memory (SRAM), F-RAM™ ferroelectric memory devices, non-volatile SRAM (nvSRAM), other specialty memories and timing solutions.
This division also includes our subsidiary AgigA Tech Inc.
Refer to Part I Item 1. Business in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a discussion of our strategies.
Our total revenues increased by $30.3 million, or 5.1%, to $624.1 million for the three-month period ended July 1, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.


item3.txt
Our debt obligations consist of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to our revolving credit facility, term loans and exchangeable notes.
Interest on the exchangeable notes is fixed and interest on our term loans is at variable rates.


item4.txt
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.


part2.txt
•restrictions on repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; •inadequate levels of compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
Although we do not anticipate any material impact on our supply chain costs from the July 2018 round of U.S. tariffs (and to date the Chinese tariffs have generally focused on other industries), further rounds of tariffs have been threatened by U.S. and Chinese leaders.


