fls.txt



item1.txt
Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Cypress" or the "Company") reports on a fiscal-year basis.
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 each contain(ed) 52 weeks.
The third quarter of fiscal 2019 ended on September 29, 2019 and the third quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on September 30, 2018.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
On September 29, 2019, the Company acquired the minority shareholders' noncontrolling interest in AgigA Tech, Inc. ("AgigA") for total cash consideration of $3.9 million, making AgigA a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
Substantially all of such consideration was paid in October 2019.
Prior to this acquisition, Cypress held 94.4% of the outstanding equity of AgigA.
The Company will, consistent with the presentation in prior periods, continue to report AgigA's financial results under its Memory Products Division.
On June 3, 2019, the Company entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Infineon Technologies AG, a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft) organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany ("Infineon") and IFX Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon ("Merger Sub").
Subject to approval by Cypress's stockholders and the relevant regulatory bodies as well as other customary closing conditions, the Merger Agreement provides for Merger Sub to merge with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
Refer to Note 2 Merger Agreement for further details.
The Company applies the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 842 to individual leases of assets.
When the Company receives substantially all of the economic benefits from and directs the use of specified property, plant and equipment, transactions give rise to leases.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets.
These elections are applied consistently for all leases.
The Company subleases certain portions of buildings and land subject to operating leases.


item2.txt
Cypress manufactures and sells advanced embedded system solutions for IoT, automotive, industrial, and consumer applications.
Cypress is committed to providing customers with quality support and engineering resources.
Refer to Note 2 Merger Agreement of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report for a description of our pending acquisition by Infineon Technologies AG ("Infineon").
Microcontroller and Connectivity Division  MCD focuses on connectivity and computing solutions for the Internet of Things and automotive solutions that enhance the in-cabin user experience.
The portfolio includes Wi-Fi® and Bluetooth® and Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), and Wi-Fi plus Bluetooth combo solutions; Traveo™ automotive MCUs, PSoC® programmable MCUs and general-purpose MCUs; CapSense® capacitive-sensing controllers and automotive TrueTouch® touchscreen solutions; a broad line of USB controllers, including solutions for the USB-C and USB Power Delivery standards; and analog PMIC Power Management ICs.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The information required by this item is included in Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
•we have diverted, and will continue to divert, significant management and other internal resources towards the completion of the Merger.
Regulatory and governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of the required regulatory clearances and approvals described above.


