ITEM 2: MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. The words “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “will,” and similar words and phrases as they relate to us also identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, among others, any expectations of operating and non-operating expense, including research and development expense, potential litigation expense, sufficiency of resources, including cash and accounts receivable, estimates of allowances for doubtful accounts, credit lines or other financial items, our internal control environment and critical accounting policies; any statements concerning future sales levels and timing and demand for our products; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations and identified opportunities; any statements concerning proposed new products, services, developments and related research and development activities; any statements related to our positioning to support current and near term levels of business; any statements of belief; and any statement of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Such statements reflect our current views and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance. These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including, without limitation, general economic conditions in both foreign and domestic markets, changes in the economy and the credit market, investment and research and development plans and success, market position and penetration, strategic plans and objectives, operating margins, government and regulatory approvals or certifications, cyclical factors affecting our industry, our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel, lack of growth in our end-markets, our ability to develop and manufacture, seasonality in our products, availability of components and materials used in our products, and our ability to sell both new and existing products at a profitable yet competitive price and those issues described under the heading “Critical Accounting Policies,” below, and those risk factors identified in Item1A, Risk Factors, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, which was filed with the SEC on April 2, 2018, as such section may be updated in our subsequent Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We urge you to review and consider the various disclosures made by us from time to time in our filings with the SEC that attempt to advise you of the risks and factors that may affect our future results. All forward-looking statements in this document are made as of the date hereof, based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. 



Results of Operations 



For the three months ended March 31, 2018, Sierra Monitor Corporation (“we”, “us” or the “Company”) reported net sales of $5,151,016 compared to $4,527,190 for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 represent a 13.8% increase from the same period in the prior year. 



Sales of gas detection products, including industrial accounts and military sales, increased by approximately 19.9% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year. Our flame and gas detection products are generally sold to engineering and installation firms who utilize the products as part of larger fire and safety projects in a variety of facilities, such as oil, gas and chemical processing plants, wastewater treatment facilities, alternate fuel vehicle maintenance garages, and other sites where hazardous gases are used or produced. The increase in sales in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily attributable to increased government shipments. 



Sales of our FieldServer product line increased by 8.6% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year. Our FieldServer products are primarily sold to OEMs who develop a broad range of products relevant to facility automation, such as boilers, chillers, air handlers, lighting controls, generator sets, electric sub-meters, etc. Our FieldServer products are also bought by system integrators looking to connect various discrete automation sub-systems to a common facility management system. Our IIoT focused products are showing growth due to pull through from other solutions like our SMC Cloud offer which is enabling device management, visualization and analytics. Customers are buying our equipment to access the cloud solution. 



Page 10 of 19 



Gross profit for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018 was $3,166,454, or 61.5% of net sales, compared to $2,734,384, or 60.4% of net sales, for the same period in the prior year. Our favorable gross margin in the first quarter of 2018 is primarily due to product mix. 



Expenses for research and development, which include new product development and engineering to sustain existing products, were $774,428, or 15.0% of net sales, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018, compared with $760,296, or 16.8% of net sales, in the same period in the prior year. Research and development expenses remain constant compared to the first quarter of 2017 as we continue to invest in new product innovation and introduction as well as maintain sustaining engineering on our current products. 



Selling and marketing expenses, which consist primarily of salaries, commissions and promotional expenses, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018 were $1,386,364, or 26.9% of net sales, compared to $1,355,211, or 29.9% of net sales, in the same period in the prior year. Selling and marketing expenses increased slightly compared to the first quarter of 2017 as we increase customer outreach and focus on both our OEM and system integrator channels. 



General and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2018 were $914,712, or 17.8% of net sales, compared to $787,812, or 17.4% of net sales, in the same period in the prior year. General and administrative expenses increased in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to technology upgrades to key customer and delivery focused systems. 



Income from operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018 was $90,950, or 1.8% of net sales, compared to loss of $168,935, or 3.7% of net sales, in the same period in the prior year. The increase is primarily the result of increased net sales. Net income for the three-month period ended March 31, 2018 was $51,261, or approximately 1.0% of net sales, compared to net loss of $133,842, or approximately 3.0% of net sales, for the same period in the prior year. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



During the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $378,147 compared to approximately $112,390 net cash used in operating activities for the same period in the prior year. Working capital was approximately $8,444,000 at March 31, 2018, a decrease of approximately $14,000 from December 31, 2017. At March 31, 2018, our balance sheet reflected approximately $3,399,000 of cash and $2,862,000 of net trade receivables. At December 31, 2017, our total cash on hand was approximately $3,192,000 and our net trade receivables were approximately $3,255,000. The difference in the cash flow and balance sheet in first quarter of 2018 compared with the same period in the prior year was due to a number of factors including net income, decreased prepaid expenses, decreased net receivables and increased accounts payable, offset by increased inventories. 



At March 31, 2018, we had no long-term liabilities. 



We maintain a line of credit with a commercial bank in the maximum amount of $2,000,000. No borrowings have been made under our line of credit during the first three months of fiscal year 2018 and there were no outstanding balances at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. As of March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with the financial covenants of the line of credit. 



Page 11 of 19 



We believe that our present resources, including cash and accounts receivable, are sufficient to fund the Company’s anticipated level of operations through at least June 2019. There are no current plans for significant capital equipment expenditures and no other known demands, commitments, events or uncertainties that will result in or that are reasonably likely to result in an increase or decrease to our liquidity in any material way. 



Critical Accounting Policies 





 a)Revenue Recognition 



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606). ASC 606 requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the considerations to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 by using the modified retrospective method. The Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The comparative information has not been recast and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. The adoption did not have a material impact to the nature and timing of its revenues, condensed statements of operations, condensed statements cash flows and condensed balance sheets. The majority of the impact has been on sales returns and the impact has been deemed immaterial. 



The Company’s revenues are derived from the sale of FieldServer products, FieldServer products services, Gas Detection and Environment Control products, and Gas Detection and Environment Control products services. The Company accounts for a contract with a customer when there’s approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. 



The Company’s revenue arrangements consist of multiple performance obligations including hardware, software, and services. Determining the stand-alone selling price (“SSP”) and allocation of consideration from an arrangement to the individual performance obligations, and the appropriate timing of revenue recognition are significant judgments with respect to these arrangements. 



The Company does not provide credits, incentives or retroactive discounts, which may be required to be accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to be recognized. The Company from time to time provides a right of return to its customers and the Company uses expected value method to estimate the potential value of the customer returns to reduce the transaction price. The impact has been deemed to be immaterial, thus there is no disclosure related to sales returns, return on assets and refund liability. 



Page 12 of 19 







Gas Detection and Environment Control Products 



Gas Detection and Environment Control Products are sold as off-the-shelf products with prices fixed at the time of order. Orders delivered to the Company by phone, fax, mail or email are considered valid purchase orders and once accepted by the Company are deemed to be the final understanding between us and our customer as to the specific nature and terms of the agreed-upon sale transaction. The creditworthiness of customers is assessed prior to the Company accepting a customer’s first order. Additionally, international customers and customers who have developed a history of payment problems are generally required to prepay or pay through a letter-of-credit. Revenue is recognized at a point in time when control of the product is transferred to the customer, generally occurring upon the shipment or delivery dependent upon the terms of the underlying contract when (a) for FOB factory orders they leave our shipping dock or (b) for FOB customer dock orders upon confirmation of delivery. 



Gas Detection and Environment Control Services 



Gas detection and environment control services consist of field service orders (technical support) and training, which are provided separately from product orders. Orders are accepted in the same forms as discussed for Gas Detection and Environment Control Products above with hourly prices fixed at the time of order. Revenue recognition occurs only when the service activity is completed. Such services are provided to current and prior customers, and, as noted above, creditworthiness has generally already been assessed. In cases where the probability of receiving payment is low, a credit card number is collected for immediate processing. Revenue is recognized in the period the technical support and training are performed. 



FieldServer Products 





Page 13 of 19 



FieldServer Services 



FieldServer services consist of orders for custom development of protocol drivers. Generally, customers place orders for FieldServer products concurrently with their order for protocol drivers. However, if custom development of the protocol driver is required, the product order is not processed until development of the protocol driver is complete. The driver development involves further research after receipt of order, preparation of a scope document to be approved by the customer and then engineering time to write, test and release the driver program. When development of the driver is complete the customer is notified and can proceed with a FieldServer product. Revenues for protocol driver development are recognized at a point in time when the control of the product is transferred to the customer generally occurring upon shipment or delivery of the related product that includes the developed protocol drivers (as noted in FieldServer Products above). 



Discounts and Allowances 



Discounts are applied at time of order entry and sales are processed at net pricing. No allowances are offered to customers. 



 b)Contract Costs 



Applying the practical expedient, the Company recognizes the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets that otherwise would have been recognized is one year or less. These costs mainly include the Company’s internal sales force compensation program and are included in sales and marketing expenses at the time the revenue is recognized. 



 c)Warranty 



The Company provides a warranty on all products sold for a period of two years after the date of shipment. Warranty issues are usually resolved with repair or replacement of the product. This standard warranty is assurance type warranty and does not offer any services in addition to the assurance that the product will continue working as specified. Therefore, warranties are not considered separate performance obligations in the arrangement. Instead, estimated future warranty obligations related to products are provided by charges to condensed statements of operations in the period in which the related revenue is recognized. 



 d)Contract Balances 



The Company records accounts receivable when it has an unconditional right to consideration. Contract liabilities are recorded when cash payments are received or due in advance of performance. Contract liabilities consist of only advance payments, where the Company has unsatisfied performance obligations. Contract liabilities are classified as deferred revenue and included within “Other current liabilities” on the condensed balance sheets. At times, billing may occur subsequent to revenue recognition, resulting in an unbilled receivable which represents a contract asset. The Company does not have any unbilled receivable on the condensed balance sheets. 



Payment terms vary by customer. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customer types, payment is required before the products or services are delivered to the customer. 



Page 14 of 19 





There were no significant changes in estimates during the period that would affect the contract balances. The amounts of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 from the opening deferred revenue balances were $425 and $0, respectively. For the periods ended March 31, 2018, and March 31, 2017 no impairment losses related to contract balances were recognized in the condensed statement of operations. 



 e)Disaggregation of Revenue 







 f)Shipping and Handling 



The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as costs to fulfill the promise to transfer the associated products. 



 g)Remaining Performance Obligations 



Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price allocated to performances obligations that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied as of the end of the reporting period. Unsatisfied and partially unsatisfied performance obligations consist of contract liabilities and non-cancellable backlog. Non-cancellable backlog includes goods and services for which customer purchase orders have been accepted that are scheduled or in the process of being scheduled for shipment. As of March 31, 2018, the remaining performance obligation is approximately $4,920,000, 45% or $2,229,000 of which is expected to be recognized in 3 months and 69% or $3,408,000 of which is expected to be recognized within nine months. The remainder is expected to be recognized after fiscal year 2018. 



 h)Accounts Receivable and Related Allowances 



Our domestic sales are generally made on an open account basis unless specific experience or knowledge of the customer’s potential inability or unwillingness to meet the payment terms dictate secured payments. Our international sales are generally made based on secure payments, including cash wire advance payments and letters of credit. International sales are made on open account terms where sufficient historical experience justifies the credit risks involved. In many of our larger sales, the customers are frequently construction contractors who are in need of our field services to complete their work and obtain payment. Management’s ability to manage the credit terms and take advantage of the leverage provided by the customers’ need for our services is critical to the effective application of credit terms and minimization of accounts receivable losses. 



Page 15 of 19 



We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts which is analyzed on a periodic basis to determine adequacy. We believe that we have demonstrated the ability to make reasonable and reliable estimates of allowances for doubtful accounts based on significant historical experience. 



 i)Inventories 



Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated market, cost being determined on the first-in, first-out method. The Company uses an Enterprise Requirements Planning (“ERP”) software system which provides data upon which management relies to determine inventory trends and identify excesses. The carrying value of inventory is reduced to market for slow moving and obsolete items based on historical experience and current product demand. We evaluate the carrying value of inventory quarterly. The adequacy of these carrying amounts is dependent upon management’s ability to forecast demands accurately, manage product changes efficiently, and interpret the data provided by the ERP system. 



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



None. 



ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



None. 



