ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



SIERRA MONITOR CORPORATION 



Condensed Balance Sheets 





See accompanying notes to the unaudited interim condensed financial statements. 



Page 2 of 23 



SIERRA MONITOR CORPORATION 



Condensed Statements of Operations 







See accompanying notes to the unaudited interim condensed financial statements. 



Page 3 of 23 



SIERRA MONITOR CORPORATION 



Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 



Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 





See accompanying notes to the unaudited interim condensed financial statements. 



Page 4 of 23 



SIERRA MONITOR CORPORATION 



Condensed Statements of Cash Flows 







See accompanying notes to the unaudited interim condensed financial statements. 



Page 5 of 23 



SIERRA MONITOR CORPORATION 



Notes to the Interim Condensed Financial Statements 







Basis of Presentation 



The accompanying unaudited interim condensed financial statements have been prepared by Sierra Monitor Corporation (the “Company,” “we,” or “us”) pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) have been omitted pursuant to such SEC rules and regulations; nevertheless, the Company believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. Amounts related to disclosure of December 31, 2018 balances within these interim condensed financial statements were derived from the audited 2018 financial statements and notes thereto. These financial statements and the notes hereto should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which was filed with the SEC on April 1, 2019. In the opinion of the Company, all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the Company for the interim period have been included. The results of operations for the interim period are not necessarily indicative of the results for any subsequent interim period or for the full year. 



Summary of Business 





On March 28, 2019 the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) MSA Safety Incorporated (“MSA”), a global safety equipment manufacturer and MSA’s indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, Gateway Merger Sub, Inc., a California corporation (“Merger Sub”). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company, with SMC surviving the Merger as an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of MSA (the “Merger”). Upon completion of the Merger, each share of common stock, $0.001 par value per share, of the Company, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (the “Effective Time”), other than shares owned or held in treasury by SMC, owned by MSA or Merger Sub, or with respect to which the holder thereof has properly exercised dissenters’ rights, will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive $3.25 in cash per share, without interest and less any required withholding taxes. Under the Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time of the Merger, MSA Safety will assume vested or unvested and outstanding stock options and restricted stock awards granted to Company employees. 



The Company’s FieldServer family of protocol gateways, routers, and network explorers targets facility automation requirements, and is used by original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and system integrators to enable local and remote monitoring and control of assets and facilities. The FieldServer family of products works with the FieldPoP™ device cloud portal; a cloud-based service that registers and manages FieldServer products, provides secure remote access to the local web-based applications that run on FieldServer products, and integrates with third-party applications over REST APIs. With more than 200,000 installed gateways supporting over 140 protocols such as BACnet, LonWorks, MODBUS, and XML in commercial and industrial facilities, FieldServer is the industry’s leading multi-protocol gateway brand and is delivered in a variety of form factors appropriate to the asset being interfaced. The intellectual property in FieldServer products is embodied in the proprietary embedded software that runs on a variety of customized hardware platforms with different connectivity options such as Serial, Ethernet, WiFi, or cellular. In addition to bridging data protocols between various assets or devices within a facility, the embedded software includes value-added “fog” or “local application” software for monitoring, logging, alarming, and trending local field data. Additionally, the embedded software enables the assets or devices in the facility to securely connect to third-party clouds and to the Company’s own FieldPoP device cloud portal. The FieldPoP device cloud portal is a proprietary, secure, and scalable Software-as-a-Service product and is developed and deployed using the same core technologies and providers that are used by many of the world’s leading web sites and Internet-based services. 



Page 6 of 23 





The Company’s solutions are also sold to telecommunication companies and their suppliers to manage environmental and security conditions such as temperature, gas, and smoke in remote structures such as local DSL distribution nodes and buildings at cell tower sites. 



Accounting Policies 



   a) Revenue Recognition  



The Company recognizes revenue under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606). ASC 606 requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the considerations to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. 



The Company’s revenues are derived from the sale of FieldServer products, FieldServer products services, Gas Detection and Environment Control products, and Gas Detection and Environment Control products services. The Company accounts for a contract with a customer when there’s approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. 



The Company’s revenue arrangements consist of multiple performance obligations including hardware, software, and services. Determining the stand-alone selling price (“SSP”) and allocation of consideration from an arrangement to the individual performance obligations, and the appropriate timing of revenue recognition are significant judgments with respect to these arrangements. 



Page 7 of 23 



The Company does not provide credits, incentives or retroactive discounts, which may be required to be accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to be recognized. The Company from time to time provides a right of return to its customers and the Company uses expected value method to estimate the potential value of the customer returns to reduce the transaction price. The impact has been deemed to be immaterial, thus there is no disclosure related to sales returns, return on assets and refund liability. 







Gas Detection and Environment Control Products 



Gas Detection and Environment Control Products are sold as off-the-shelf products with prices fixed at the time of order. Orders delivered to the Company by phone, fax, mail or email are considered valid purchase orders and once accepted by the Company are deemed to be the final understanding between us and our customer as to the specific nature and terms of the agreed-upon sale transaction. The creditworthiness of customers is assessed prior to the Company accepting a customer’s first order. Additionally, international customers and customers who have developed a history of payment problems are generally required to prepay or pay through a letter-of-credit. Revenue is recognized at a point in time when control of the product is transferred to the customer, generally occurring upon the shipment or delivery dependent upon the terms of the underlying contract when (a) for FOB factory orders they leave our shipping dock or (b) for FOB customer dock orders upon confirmation of delivery. 



Gas Detection and Environment Control Services 



Gas detection and environment control services consist of field service orders (technical support) and training, which are provided separately from product orders. Orders are accepted in the same forms as discussed for Gas Detection and Environment Control Products above with hourly prices fixed at the time of order. Revenue recognition occurs only when the service activity is completed. Such services are provided to current and prior customers, and, as noted above, creditworthiness has generally already been assessed. In cases where the probability of receiving payment is low, a credit card number is collected for immediate processing. Revenue is recognized in the period the technical support and training are performed. 



FieldServer Products 





Page 8 of 23 



FieldServer Services 



FieldServer services consist of orders for custom development of protocol drivers. Generally, customers place orders for FieldServer products concurrently with their order for protocol drivers. However, if custom development of the protocol driver is required, the product order is not processed until development of the protocol driver is complete. The driver development involves further research after receipt of order, preparation of a scope document to be approved by the customer and then engineering time to write, test and release the driver program. When development of the driver is complete the customer is notified and can proceed with a FieldServer product. Revenues for protocol driver development are recognized at a point in time when the control of the product is transferred to the customer generally occurring upon shipment or delivery of the related product that includes the developed protocol drivers (as noted in FieldServer Products above). 



Discounts and Allowances 



Discounts are applied at time of order entry and sales are processed at net pricing. No allowances are offered to customers. 



b) Contract Costs 



Applying the practical expedient, the Company recognizes the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets that otherwise would have been recognized is one year or less. These costs mainly include the Company’s internal sales force compensation program and are included in sales and marketing expenses at the time the revenue is recognized. 



c) Warranty 



The Company provides a warranty on all products sold for a period of two years after the date of shipment. Warranty issues are usually resolved with repair or replacement of the product. This standard warranty is assurance type warranty and does not offer any services in addition to the assurance that the product will continue working as specified. Therefore, warranties are not considered separate performance obligations in the arrangement. Instead, estimated future warranty obligations related to products are provided by charges to condensed statements of operations in the period in which the related revenue is recognized. 



d) Contract Balances 



The Company records accounts receivable when it has an unconditional right to consideration. Contract liabilities are recorded when cash payments are received or due in advance of performance. Contract liabilities consist of only advance payments, where the Company has unsatisfied performance obligations. Contract liabilities are classified as deferred revenue and included within “Other current liabilities” on the condensed balance sheets. At times, billing may occur subsequent to revenue recognition, resulting in an unbilled receivable which represents a contract asset. The Company does not have any unbilled receivable on the condensed balance sheets. 





Payment terms vary by customer. The time between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customer types, payment is required before the products or services are delivered to the customer. 



There were no significant changes in estimates during the period that would affect the contract balances. The amounts of revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 from the opening deferred revenue balances were $733 and $442, respectively. For the periods ended March 31, 2019, and March 31, 2018 no impairment losses related to contract balances were recognized in the condensed statement of operations. 



Page 9 of 23 



e) Disaggregation of Revenue 







f) Shipping and Handling 



The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as costs to fulfill the promise to transfer the associated products. 



g) Remaining Performance Obligations 



Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price allocated to performances obligations that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied as of the end of the reporting period. Unsatisfied and partially unsatisfied performance obligations consist of contract liabilities and non-cancellable backlog. Non-cancellable backlog includes goods and services for which customer purchase orders have been accepted that are scheduled or in the process of being scheduled for shipment. As of March 31, 2019, the remaining performance obligation is approximately $3,882,000, 36% or $1,379,000 of which is expected to be recognized in 3 months and 72% or $2,782,000 of which is expected to be recognized within nine months. The remainder is expected to be recognized after fiscal year 2019. 



   h) Recent Accounting Pronouncements  



Recent accounting pronouncements discussed in the notes to the December 31, 2018 audited financial statements, filed previously with the SEC in our Annual Report on Form 10-K on April 1, 2019, that are required to be adopted during the year ended December 31, 2019, did not have or are not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s 2019 financial statements. 



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC 842), which supersedes the existing guidance for lease accounting, Leases (Topic 840). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to recognize Right-Of-Use (“ROU”) Asset and Lease Liability for virtually all of their leases (other than leases that meet the definition of a short-term lease). On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 842 using the modified retrospective method for all material leases that existed at or commenced after January 1, 2019. ROU Assets are amortized over their estimated useful life, which represents the full term of the lease. The lease liability is representative of the present value of future payments due under the lease, discounted using the incremental borrowing rate. The lease liability will be increased by accreted interest at the incremental borrowing rate and reduced by future payments made under the lease obligation. On January 1, 2019, the Company recognized right of use (ROU) assets and liabilities of $1,335,148 in the accompanying condensed balance sheets. There was no impact to retained earnings upon the adoption of Topic 842. 



   i) Employee Stock-Based Compensation  



In April 2016 and in May 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors and the Company’s shareholders, respectively, approved the Company’s 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2016 Stock Plan”) and reserved a total of (i) 279,680 shares, plus (ii) 2,550,320 shares that remained available for issuance under the 2006 Stock Plan immediately prior to its expiration, plus (iii) any shares subject to stock options or restricted stock granted under the 2006 Stock Plan that, on or after the date the 2016 Stock Plan became effective, expired or otherwise terminated without having been exercised in full, or were forfeited to or repurchased by the Company, with the maximum number of shares to be added to the 2016 Stock Plan pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) equal to 2,668,320. Options granted under our 2006 Stock Plan and 2016 Stock Plan are at the fair market value of our common stock at the grant date, typically vest ratably over four years, and expire ten years from the grant date. As of March 31, 2019, a total of 1,516,000 shares were issued under the 2016 Stock Plan. 



All share-based payments to employees (incentive stock options) are recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values at the date of grant. The calculated fair value is recognized as expense (net of any capitalization) over the requisite service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the straight-line method. The Company considers many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class and historical experience. The modified prospective method of application requires compensation expense to be recognized in the financial statements for all unvested stock options beginning in the quarter of award. The cost is based on the grant date fair value of the stock option. Compensation expense recognized in future periods for share-based compensation will be adjusted for the effects of estimated forfeitures. 



Page 10 of 23 



For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, general and administrative expenses included stock based compensation expense of $59,272 and $46,660, respectively, decreasing the Company’s income before income taxes resulting from the recognition of compensation expense associated with employee stock options. There was no material impact on the Company’s basic and diluted net income per share as a result of recognizing the employee stock-based compensation expense. The Company did not modify the terms of any previously granted stock options during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. 



   j) Subsequent Events  





Inventories 







Net Income Per Share 



Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed using the weighted average number of common and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive potential common shares consist of common stock issuable upon exercise of stock options using the treasury stock method. No adjustments to earnings were made for purposes of per share calculations. 



At March 31, 2019, no outstanding options to acquire shares of common stock were not considered potentially dilutive common shares due to the exercise price of such options being higher than the stock price used in the EPS calculation. At March 31, 2018, a total of 808,000 outstanding options to acquire shares of common stock were not considered potentially dilutive common shares due to the exercise price of such options being higher than the stock price used in the EPS calculation. 







Page 11 of 23 



Concentrations 



No customer made up more than 10% of accounts receivable at March 31, 2019 and at March 31, 2018. No customer made up more than 10% of net sales for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018. 



The Company currently maintains substantially all of its day to day operating cash with a major financial institution. At times, cash balances may be in excess of the amounts insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Cash balances of approximately $1,756,000 and $2,464,000 were in excess of such insured amounts at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 



Segment Information 



The Company operates in a single business segment, industrial instrumentation. The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), evaluates the performance of the Company and makes operating decisions based on financial data consistent with the presentation in the accompanying condensed financial statements. 







Line of Credit 



The Company maintains a line of credit with its commercial bank in the maximum amount of $2,000,000. No borrowings have been made under the Company’s line of credit during the first three months of fiscal year 2019 and there were no outstanding balances as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. As of March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with the financial covenants of the line of credit. 



Operating Lease 



We lease certain office space under a non-cancelable operating lease. This lease does not have significant rent escalation holidays, concessions, leasehold improvement incentives or other build-out clauses. Further this lease does not contain contingent rent provisions. This lease terminates on April 30, 2023 and we do not have an option to renew. This lease does include both lease (e.g., fixed rent) and non-lease components (e.g., common-area and other maintenance costs). The non-lease components are deemed to be executory costs and are therefore excluded from the minimum lease payments used to determine the present value of the operating lease obligation and related right-of-use asset. 



This lease does not provide an implicit rate and we estimated our incremental interest rate to be 5%. We used our estimated incremental borrowing rate and other information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of the lease payments. 





Stock Option Grants 



No stock options were granted during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019. A total of 41,000 stock options were granted during the three-month period ended March 31, 2018. 



Stock Option Exercises and Expirations 



No stock options were exercised or expired during the three-month period ended March 31, 2019. Also, no stock options were exercised but 1,000 options expired during the three-month period ended March 31, 2018. 



Commitments and Contingencies 



From time to time, the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the normal course of business. While the outcome of these proceedings and claims cannot be predicted, we currently are not a party to any legal proceedings, the adverse outcome of which, in management’s opinion, individually or in the aggregate, is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 



Page 12 of 23 



ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 



From time to time, the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the normal course of business. While the outcome of these proceedings and claims cannot be predicted, we currently are not a party to any legal proceedings, the adverse outcome of which, in management’s opinion, individually or in the aggregate, is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 



Please see those risk factors identified in Item1A, Risk Factors, of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. The Company’s risk factors have not changed materially since December 31, 2018. 



