fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Hurco Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized machine tools.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support.
For each contract, we identify our performance obligations, which is delivering goods or services, determine the transaction price, allocate the contract transaction price to the performance obligations (when applicable), and recognize the revenue when (or as) the performance obligation is transferred to the customer.


item2.txt
Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international, industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
During the first three months of fiscal 2019, approximately 48% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements.
We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments – principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
See Note 3 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Dollars for financial reporting purposes.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Hurco Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The condensed financial information as of January 31, 2019 and for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and January 31, 2018 is unaudited.
We design, manufacture and sell computerized machine tools.
A good or service is transferred when the customer obtains control of that good or service.
Prior to shipment, we test each machine to ensure the machine’s compliance with standard operating specifications.
We recognize installation revenue on a prorata basis over the period of the installation process.
Service fees from maintenance contracts are deferred and recognized in earnings on a prorata basis over the term of the contract, and are generally sold on a stand-alone basis.
Customer discounts and estimated product returns are considered variable consideration and are recorded as a reduction of revenue in the same period that the related sales are recorded.
We have reviewed the overall sales transactions for variable consideration and have determined that these amounts are not significant.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a few major financial institutions.
We record all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities at fair value.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S.
Dollars at January 31, 2019, were $28.1 million for Euros, $10.1 million for Pounds Sterling and $29.7 million for New Taiwan Dollars.
Included in this amount were approximately $67,000 of unrealized gains, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
The majority of these deferred losses will be recorded as an adjustment to Cost of sales and service in periods through January 2020, when the corresponding inventory that is the subject of the related hedge contracts is sold, as described above.


