fls.txt



item1.txt
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We record all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities at fair value.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S.
To manage this risk, we entered into a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million in November 2017.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
This forward contract matures in November 2018.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S.
Dollars at April 30, 2018, totaled $58.1 million.
No further awards will be made under our 2008 Plan.
The total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2016 Equity Plan is 856,048, which includes 386,048 shares remaining available for future grants under the 2008 Plan as of March 10, 2016, the date our shareholders approved the 2016 Equity Plan.
No stock option may be exercised more than ten years after the date of grant or such shorter period as the Compensation Committee may determine at the date of grant.
The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the six months ended April 30, 2018 was approximately $790,000.
On November 15, 2017, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 2,364 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-executive employees.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based upon the closing sales price of our common stock on the date of grant, which was $42.30 per share.


item2.txt
Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, approximately 55% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar.
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments, principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
See Note 2 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Orders in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 13%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.
This increase was largely attributable to increased customer demand for higher-performance Hurco machines.
Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $19.3 million, or 27% of sales, compared to $17.1 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.


item3.txt
Interest on borrowings on our credit facilities are variable and tied to prevailing domestic and foreign interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


