fls.txt



item1.txt
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We record all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities at fair value.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S.
Included in this amount were $4,000 of unrealized losses, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
To manage this risk, we entered into a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million in November 2017.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
This forward contract matures in November 2018.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S.
Dollars at July 31, 2018 totaled $50.8 million.
No further awards will be made under our 2008 Plan.
No stock option may be exercised more than ten years after the date of grant or such shorter period as the Compensation Committee may determine at the date of grant.
On November 15, 2017, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 2,364 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-executive employees.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based upon the closing sales price of our common stock on the date of grant, which was $42.30 per share.
The vesting date fair value of the performance shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the vesting date, which was $42.20 per share.


item2.txt
Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
During the nine months of fiscal 2018, approximately 55% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan).
Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar.
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
Dollars for reporting in our financial statements are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments – principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
See Note 2 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Sales and Service Fees.
Sales of service parts increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket sales in the Americas and France.
Orders in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 9%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017.


item3.txt
Our purchases are predominantly in foreign currencies and in some cases our arrangements with these suppliers include foreign currency risk sharing agreements, which reduce (but do not eliminate) the effects of currency fluctuations on product costs.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We maintain insurance policies for such matters, and we record insurance recoveries when we determine such recovery to be probable.


