fls.txt



item1.txt
Prior to the adoption of ASC 606, our revenues were already recognized in the same manner as that required by ASC 606.
We record revenues based on a five-step model in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidance codified in ASC 606.
A good or service is transferred when the customer obtains control of that good or service.
Our computerized machine tools are general purpose computer controlled machine tools that are typically used in stand-alone operations.
Prior to shipment, we test each machine to ensure the machine’s compliance with standard operating specifications.
We deem that the customer obtains control upon delivery of the product and that obtaining control is not contingent upon contractual customer acceptance.
Depending upon geographic location, after shipment, a machine may be installed at the customer’s facilities by a distributor, independent contractor or by one of our service technicians.
We consider these services to be perfunctory within the context of the contract, as the value of these services typically does not rise to a material level as a component of the total contract value.
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk, for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a few major financial institutions.
We enter into these forward exchange contracts to reduce the potential effects of foreign exchange rate movements on our net equity investment in one of our foreign subsidiaries, to reduce the impact on gross profit and net earnings from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, and to reduce the impact on our net earnings of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are different than the subsidiaries’ functional currency.
We record all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities at fair value.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S.
At April 30, 2019, we had approximately $702,000 of gains, net of tax, related to cash flow hedges deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Included in this amount were $195,000 of unrealized gains, net of tax, related to cash flow hedge instruments that remain subject to currency fluctuation risk.
To manage this risk, we entered into a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million in November 2018.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.


item2.txt
Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019, approximately 51% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines.
For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S.
Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger.
In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments, principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
See Note 3 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Sales in the Americas for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 10%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Orders.
Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $21.6 million, or 31% of sales, compared to $19.3 million, or 27% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period.
Operating Expenses.
Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $7.5 million, compared to $6.0 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
Interest on borrowings on our credit facilities are variable and tied to prevailing domestic and foreign interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
From time to time, we are involved in claims and lawsuits arising in the normal course of business.


