fls.txt



item1.txt
Currently, the only risk that we manage through the use of derivative instruments is foreign currency risk for which we enter into derivative instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a major financial institution.
We record all derivative instruments as assets or liabilities at fair value.
To manage this risk, we entered into a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million in November 2017.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro denominated assets.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
This forward contract matures in November 2018.
The contract amounts, expressed at forward rates in U.S.
Dollars at January 31, 2018 totaled $63.3 million.
No further awards will be made under our 2008 Plan.
The total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued pursuant to awards under the 2016 Equity Plan is 856,048, which includes 386,048 shares remaining available for future grants under the 2008 Plan as of March 10, 2016, the date our shareholders approved the 2016 Equity Plan.
No stock option may be exercised more than ten years after the date of grant or such shorter period as the Compensation Committee may determine at the date of grant.
The market value of a share of our common stock, for purposes of the 2016 Equity Plan, is the closing sale price as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the date in question or, if not a trading day, on the last preceding trading date.
The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the three months ended January 31, 2018 was approximately $492,000.
On March 9, 2017, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 14,920 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-employee directors.
The restricted shares vest in full one year from the date of grant provided the recipient remains on the board of directors through that date.
The grant date fair value of the restricted shares was based on the closing sales price of our common stock on the grant date, which was $26.80 per share.
On November 15, 2017, the Compensation Committee granted a total of 2,364 shares of time-based restricted stock to our non-executive employees.


item2.txt
Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components.
Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products.
We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support.
The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance.
See Note 2 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Sales and Service Fees.
Sales and service fees for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were $68.4 million, an increase of $19.7 million, or 40%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $4.4 million, or 9%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
European sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 50%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 15%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems.
This increase was primarily attributable to slight increased customer demand for higher-performance Hurco machines.


item3.txt
Our purchases are predominantly in foreign currencies and in some cases our arrangements with these suppliers include foreign currency risk sharing agreements, which reduce (but do not eliminate) the effects of currency fluctuations on product costs.


item4.txt



part2.txt
There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2017.


