•TruBridge, our third reporting segment, focuses on providing business management, consulting, and managed IT services along with its complete revenue cycle management ("RCM") solution for all care settings, regardless of their primary healthcare information solutions provider.
•Get Real Health, included within our TruBridge segment, delivers technology solutions to improve patient outcomes and engagement strategies with care providers.
Our companies currently support approximately 1,000 acute care facilities and approximately 3,300 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market. Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with fewer than 200 acute care beds, with hospitals having fewer than 100 beds comprising approximately 98% of our acute care EHR client base. 
See Note 16 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information on our three reportable segments.
 Through much of our history, our strategy has been to achieve meaningful long-term revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market. Prospectively, our ability to continue to realize long-term revenue growth is largely dependent on our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented between our operating segments, Acute Care EHR, Post-acute Care EHR, and TruBridge. As a result, retention of existing EHR customers is a key component of our long-term growth strategy by protecting this base of potential cross-sell customers, while at the same time serving as a leading indicator of our market position and stability of revenues and cash flows.
 Additionally, as we consider the long-term growth prospects of our business, we are seeking to further stabilize our revenues and cash flows and leverage TruBridge services as a growth agent in light of a relatively mature EHR marketplace. As a result, we are placing ever-increasing value in further developing our already significant recurring revenue base. As such, maintaining and growing recurring revenues are additional key components of our long-term growth strategy, aided by the aforementioned focus on customer retention, and includes a renewed focus on driving demand for subscriptions for our existing technology solutions.
 Our business model is designed such that, as revenue growth materializes, earnings and profitability growth are naturally bolstered through the increased margin realization afforded us by operating leverage. Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on a continuing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services, all of which contribute to recurring revenue growth. The provision of these recurring revenue services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins and operating margins. 
We also look to increase margins through cost containment measures where appropriate as we continue to leverage opportunities for greater operating efficiencies of the combined entity. For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group. Using best practices of the combined companies' implementation processes, we have decreased travel costs for our acute care installations by approximately 25%. Also, during the third quarter of 2018, we instituted a limited-time, voluntary severance program offering those employees meeting certain predetermined criteria severance packages involving continuing periodic cash payments and healthcare benefits for varying periods, depending upon the individual's years of service with the Company. 
Turbulence in the U.S. and worldwide economies and financial markets impacts almost all industries. While the healthcare industry is not immune to economic cycles, we believe it is more significantly affected by U.S. regulatory and national health initiatives than by the economic cycles of our economy. Additionally, healthcare organizations with a large dependency on Medicare and Medicaid populations, such as community hospitals, have been affected by the challenging financial condition of the federal government and many state governments and government programs. Accordingly, we recognize that prospective hospital clients often do not have the necessary capital to make investments in information technology. Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment. Despite these challenges, we believe healthcare information technology is often viewed as more strategically beneficial to hospitals than other possible purchases because the technology also plays an important role in healthcare by improving safety and efficiency and reducing costs. Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments. There is increasing pressure on healthcare organizations to reduce costs and increase quality while replacing fee-for-service in part by enrolling in an advanced payment model. This pressure could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT and increase demand for business management, consulting, and managed IT services, as the future success of these healthcare providers is greatly dependent upon their ability to engage patient populations and to coordinate patient care across a multitude of settings, while optimizing operating efficiency along the way.
We have historically made financing arrangements available to clients on a case-by-case basis, depending upon the various aspects of the proposed contract and customer attributes. Our system sales revenues are now weighted more heavily in the form of financed sales, compared to upfront and subscription payment modules. These financing arrangements include short-term payment plans and longer-term lease financing through us or third-party financing companies. For those clients not seeking a financing arrangement, the payment schedule of the typical contract is structured to provide for a scheduling deposit due at contract signing, with the remainder of the contracted fees due at various stages of the installation process (delivery of hardware, installation of software and commencement of training, and satisfactory completion of a monthly accounting cycle or end-of-month operation by each respective application, as applicable). 
During 2018, total financing receivables increased by $7.8 million, which had a significant impact on operating cash flow. This increase in financing arrangements was primarily due to two reasons. First, meaningful use stage three ("MU3") installations are primarily financed through short-term payment plans and demand for such installation has increased since late 2017. Second, competitor financing options, primarily through accounts receivable management collections and cloud EHR arrangements, have applied pressure to reduce initial customer capital investment requirements for new EHR installations, leading to the offering of long-term lease options. We expect positive cash flows from financing receivables during 2019 as cash receipts from MU3 installations in the previous year are received.
We have also historically made our software applications available to clients through "Software as a Service" or "SaaS" configurations, including our Cloud Electronic Health Record ("Cloud EHR") offering. These offerings are attractive to some clients because this configuration allows them to obtain access to advanced software products without a significant initial capital outlay. We have experienced an increase in the prevalence of such SaaS arrangements for new system installations and add-on sales to existing clients since 2015, a trend we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. Unlike our perpetual license arrangements under which the related revenue is recognized effectively upon installation, the SaaS arrangements result in revenue being recognized monthly as the services are provided over the term of the arrangement. As a result, the effect of this trend on the Company's financial statements is reduced system sales revenues during the period of installation in exchange for increased recurring periodic revenues (reflected in system sales and support revenues) over the term of the SaaS arrangement.
On May 3, 2019, the Company closed its acquisition of Get Real Health pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement dated April 23, 2019, as amended on May 2, 2019. Based in Rockville, Maryland, Get Real Health delivers technology solutions to improve patient outcomes and engagement strategies with care providers. Through this acquisition, the Company will strengthen its position in community healthcare by offering three new comprehensive patient engagement and empowerment solutions that are offered by Get Real Health. Although the acquisition is expected to be accretive to our earnings for fiscal year 2019, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. In addition, during the first six months of 2019, we incurred approximately $0.4 million of pre-tax acquisition costs in connection with the acquisition of Get Real Health. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we generated revenues of $135.3 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $138.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018, a decrease of 3% that is primarily attributed to fewer MU3 installations as the MU3 deadline approaches partially offset by continued TruBridge client growth. We view sales 
of TruBridge solutions within our existing EHR client base as our leading performance indicator. Our net income for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased by $0.8 million to $5.1 million from the six months ended June 30, 2018 as a result of a lower effective tax rate. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $9.6 million to $17.5 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to more advantageous changes in working capital, most notably as it relates to accounts receivable and financing receivables. 
Revenues. Total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $1.7 million, or 3%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018. 
 TruBridge revenues increased 5%, or $1.4 million, compared to the second quarter of 2018. Our hospital clients operate in an environment typified by rising costs and increased complexity and are increasingly seeking to alleviate themselves of the ever-increasing administrative burden of operating their own business office functions. Most notably, our insurance services line, which includes our TruBridge services, increased by $0.4 million, or 5%, due to new RCM customer growth. We have also expanded our customer base for our accounts receivable management services resulting in an increase of $0.6 million, or 7%, and our information technology management services grew by 10%, or $0.3 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our medical coding services of $0.1 million, or 4%, as operational decisions made by a few key customers have decreased their related patient volume and, consequently, had a negative impact on our service revenues. Get Real Health contributed $0.2 million in TruBridge revenue during the second quarter of 2019.
Costs of Sales. Total costs of sales decreased by 4%, or $1.4 million, compared to the second quarter of 2018. As a percentage of total revenues, costs of sales decreased to 48% in the second quarter of 2019, compared to 49% in the second quarter of 2018. 
Costs of Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support decreased by $0.2 million, or 15%, compared to the second quarter of 2018, as we have been able to continue to operate more efficiently to meet current demand. Decreases in payroll, software, hardware, and other costs combined for the decrease. The gross margin on Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support increased to 76% in the second quarter of 2019, compared to 72% in the second quarter of 2018.
Our costs associated with TruBridge sales and support increased 3%, or $0.4 million, with the largest contributing factor being nonrecurring costs related to replacing office computers. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in payroll and related costs of 2%, or $0.2 million, as a result of a 3% reduction in headcount compared to the second quarter of 2019. The gross margin on these services increased to 47% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 46% in the second quarter of 2018. Get Real Health contributed $0.1 million in TruBridge cost of sales during the second quarter of 2019.
Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses decreased 7%, or $0.5 million, compared to the second quarter of 2018, primarily due to decreased payroll costs of 15%, or $0.4 million, based on decreased headcount. We also reduced our general spend by $0.3 million, or 24%, compared to the second quarter of 2018. Get Real Health contributed $0.2 million in sales and marketing costs during the second quarter of 2019. 
General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses decreased 8%, or $1.1 million, as the $2.1 million in cost savings achieved through recent changes in the health benefits offered to our employees through our self-insured health plans were partially offset by increases in other expense items. Most notably, we saw a $1.1 million increase in non-recurring severance and transaction-related costs resulting from our recent acquisition of Get Real Health. Bad debt expense decreased $0.3 million, or 25%, compared to the second quarter of 2018. Get Real Health contributed $0.2 million in general and administrative costs during the second quarter of 2019.
Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangibles. Amortization expense associated with acquisition-related intangible assets decreased $0.1 million compared to the second quarter of 2018 due to the retirement of Rycan related trademarks during 2018. All software and services previously provided under the Rycan name now are marketed under TruBridge trademarks.
 Total Operating Expenses. As a percentage of total revenues, total operating expenses decreased to 47% in the second quarter of 2019, compared to 48% in the second quarter of 2018. 
Total Other Income (Expense). Total other income (expense) decreased from expense of $1.6 million during the second quarter of 2018 to expense of $1.5 million during the second quarter of 2019, as our interest rate on long term debt was reduced as we have reached our target consolidated leverage ratio, coupled with an increase in interest income due to the expansion of long-term payment plans offered to our clients.
Income Before Taxes. As a result of the foregoing factors, income before taxes increased by $1.5 million, compared to the second quarter of 2018.
ended June 30, 2018. Net income represented 3% of revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to less than 1% of revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Revenues. Total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $3.5 million, or 3%, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2018. 
 Non-recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $3.0 million, or 13%, primarily due to a $3.9 million decrease in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues. We installed our Acute Care EHR solutions at 11 new hospital clients during the first six months of 2019 (four of which were under a SaaS arrangement) compared to nine new hospital clients during the first six months of 2018 (two under a SaaS arrangement). Despite the similar experience in non-SaaS installation activity, a decrease in average contract value for the related installations resulted in non-recurring EHR revenues from new system implementations decreasing $2.5 million from the first six months of 2018. Additionally, the impending 2019 year-end deadline for compliance with the related PI (formerly “Meaningful Use”) program from CMS resulted in a $4.7 million decrease in related MU3 installation revenues, which were partially offset by robust sales of other add-on applications. Non-recurring Post-acute Care EHR revenues increased by $0.9 million, or 54%, in the six months ended June 30, 2019 as a result of increased bookings due to our ongoing product releases and aggressive efforts to make technological improvements to the AHT product line.
 TruBridge revenues increased 4%, or $2.1 million, compared to the first six months of 2018. Our hospital clients operate in an environment typified by rising costs and increased complexity and are increasingly seeking to alleviate themselves of the ever-increasing administrative burden of operating their own business office functions. Most notably, our insurance services line, which includes our TruBridge services, increased by $1.2 million, or 9%, due to new RCM customer growth. We have also expanded our customer base for our accounts receivable management services, resulting in an increase of $1.0 million, or 6%, and our information technology management services grew by 10%, or $0.6 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our medical coding services of $0.9 million, or 16%, as operational decisions made by a few key customers have decreased their related patient volume and, consequently, had a negative impact on our service revenues. Get Real Health contributed $0.2 million in TruBridge revenue during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Our costs associated with TruBridge sales and support increased 3%, or $0.7 million, with general increases as a result of a larger customer base. The gross margin on these services was 47% in the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to 46% in the six months ended June 30, 2018. Get Real Health contributed $0.1 million in TruBridge cost of sales during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangibles. Amortization expense associated with acquisition-related intangible assets decreased $0.2 million compared to the first six months of 2018 due to the retirement of Rycan related trademarks during 2018. All software and services previously provided under the Rycan name now are marketed under TruBridge trademarks.
 Total Operating Expenses. As a percentage of total revenues, total operating expenses remained at 46% in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018. 
Total Other Income (Expense). Total other income (expense) decreased from expense of $3.4 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018 to expense of $3.0 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019, as our interest rate on long term debt was reduced as we have reached our target consolidated leverage ratio, coupled with an increase in interest income due to the expansion of long-term payment plans offered to our clients.
Income Before Taxes. As a result of the foregoing factors, income before taxes increased by 2%, or $0.1 million, compared to the first six months of 2018.
As of June 30, 2019, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $6.8 million and our remaining borrowing capacity under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility of $11.6 million, compared to $5.7 million of cash and cash equivalents and $20.3 million of remaining borrowing capacity under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2018. In conjunction with our acquisition of HHI in January 2016, we entered into the Previous Credit Agreement which provided for the $125 million Previous Term Loan Facility and the $50 million Previous Revolving Credit Facility. On October 13, 2017, the Company entered into the Second Amendment to refinance and decrease the aggregate principal amount of the credit facilities from $175 million to $162 million, which included the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and the $45 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility. On February 8, 2018, the Company entered into the Third Amendment to increase the aggregate principal amount of the Amended Credit Facilities from $162 million to $167 million, which includes the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and a $50 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
To finance the closing of the Get Real Health transaction, which occurred on May 3, 2019, the Company used a draw of approximately $11.0 million under its Amended Revolving Credit Facility. If the Company is required to make earnout payments (up to $14.0 million) after the end of 2019, the Company expects to use additional draws on its Amended Revolving Credit Facility to fund any such earnout payments. The Company has measured the fair value of the potential earnout payment at $5.0 million as of June 30, 2019.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $9.6 million, from $7.8 million provided by operations for the six months ended June 30, 2018 to $17.5 million provided by operations for the six months ended June 30, 2019. The increase in cash flows provided from operations is primarily due to more cash-advantageous changes in working capital. Working capital was a net use of cash during the first six months 2018 in the amount of $10.7 million, compared to a net use of cash during the first six months 2019 of only $1.9 million. During the first six months 2018, rapid revenue growth for TruBridge resulted in expansion of accounts receivable of approximately $4.5 million and financing receivables of approximately $1.7 million, as we were still in the early-stages of the MU3 opportunity (the sales of which have been nearly all under short-term payment plans). Conversely, modest TruBridge revenue growth during the first six months 2019 coupled with collections on past financing receivables have greatly abated the related cash collection timing delays. As a result, these components of working capital, which combined for $6.1 million of cash collection deferrals during the first six months 2018, combined to be $4.0 million cash positive during the first six months 2019.
Net cash used in investing activities increased $11.4 million, with $11.9 million used in the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to $0.4 million used during the six months ended June 30, 2018. We completed our $11.0 million acquisition of Get Real Health during the second quarter 2019. We do not anticipate the need for significant capital expenditures during the remainder of 2019. 
Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30, 2022, with maturity on October 13, 2022 or such earlier date as the obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement become due and payable pursuant to the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Amended Maturity Date"). Any principal outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility is due and payable on the Amended Maturity Date.
The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent, on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are also guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.
The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter. The Company is permitted to voluntarily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities at any time 
Backlog consists of revenues we reasonably expect to recognize over the next twelve months under all existing contracts, including those with remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less and those with fees that are variable in which we estimate future revenues. The revenues to be recognized may relate to a combination of one-time fees for system sales and recurring fees for support and maintenance and TruBridge services. As of June 30, 2019, we had a twelve-month backlog of approximately $17 million in connection with non-recurring system purchases and approximately $227 million in connection with recurring payments under support and maintenance, Cloud EHR contracts, and TruBridge services. As of June 30, 2018, we had a twelve-month backlog of approximately $38 million in connection with non-recurring system purchases and approximately $229 million in connection with recurring payments under support and maintenance and TruBridge services. 
Post-acute Care EHR bookings in the second quarter 2019 increased by $0.7 million, or 65%, from the second quarter 2018, and increased by $1.4 million, or 78%, year-to-date 2019 compared to year-to-date 2018, as beneficial regulatory factors have worked in tandem with our recent efforts to improve the related product functionality and usability to drive improved demand in both the net new and add-on sales environments.
TruBridge bookings in the second quarter 2019 decreased $3.3 million, or 51%, from the second quarter 2018, and decreased $2.9 million, or 28%, year-to-date 2019 compared to year-to-date 2018, as the aforementioned lack of urgency related to Acute Care EHR net new installation bookings is also having an adverse impact on the timing of customer decisions for purchasing TruBridge services.
We had no off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined by Item 303(a)(4) of SEC Regulation S-K, as of June 30, 2019.
In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, we identified our critical accounting polices related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, allowance for credit losses, and estimates. There have been no significant changes to these critical accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
