fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X, and should be read in conjunction with the Xilinx, Inc.
(Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 30, 2019 or any future period.
The Company uses a 52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March 31.
In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the authoritative guidance, as amended, that outlines a new revenue recognition standard that replaces virtually all existing U.S. GAAP guidance on contracts with customers and the related other assets and deferred costs.
The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (Full Retrospective), or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.
The Company implemented internal controls and certain system functionality to enable the preparation of financial information on adoption.
Revenue from sales to the Company's distributors is recognized upon shipment of the product to the distributors (sell-in) and is reduced by estimated allowances for distributor price adjustments and rights of return.
Previously, revenue was recognized upon reported resale of the product by the distributors to their customers (sell-through) as reduced by actual allowances for distributor price adjustments.
Revenue recognition related to the Company's other revenue streams, such as direct customers, remains unchanged.
In January 2016, the FASB issued final authoritative guidance regarding how companies measure equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method and how they present changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured under the fair value option that are attributable to their own credit.
The Company adopted this authoritative guidance on April 1, 2018 and recorded the balance of the unrealized losses of $11.0 million as of the end of fiscal 2018 from its investment in debt mutual funds and equity securities to retained earnings, less the related deferred taxes of $2.6 million.
Subsequent changes in fair value from such investments are recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of income.
In October 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on income taxes which eliminates the deferred tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory.
As a result, a reporting entity would recognize the tax expense from the sale of an asset in the seller’s tax jurisdiction when the transfer occurs, even though the pre-tax effects of that transaction are eliminated in consolidation.
The authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and requires the adoption be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings.


item2.txt
We use the acquisition method of accounting and allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquiree based on their respective fair values as of the acquisition date.
Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows, which includes consideration of future growth and margins, future changes in technology, expected cost and time to develop in-process research and development, brand awareness and discount rates.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Net revenues from Advanced Products increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the comparable prior year periods.


item3.txt
Our exposure to interest rate risk relates to certain types of investments, which consist of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $3.06 billion as of December 29, 2018, and to our interest rate swap contracts in relation to the issuance of the 2024 Notes (as our interest rate swap contracts carry a variable interest rate based on LIBOR plus a spread).


item4.txt



part2.txt
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.
In addition, we also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
Therefore, the foundries, particularly TSMC who manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner.
We cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies.
For example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a given product for the full life of the product.
We could also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products, or a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry.


