fls.txt



item1.txt
(Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2017.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018 or any future period.
The Company uses a 52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March 31.
In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the authoritative guidance, as amended, that outlines a new global revenue recognition standard that replaces virtually all existing U.S. GAAP guidance on contracts with customers and the related other assets and deferred costs.
The Company is currently evaluating the full impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements, including selection of the transition method.
However, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, it is expected that the new authoritative guidance would require the Company to recognize revenue and cost relating to distributor sales upon product delivery (Sell-In), subject to estimated allowance for distributor price adjustments and rights of return, rather than deferring the distributor sales upon product delivery and subsequently recognizing revenue when the product is sold by the distributor to the end customer (Sell-Through).
Upon adoption, the Company currently expects that it will record the balance of the deferred revenue (subject to true-ups) under Sell-Through to retained earnings, and the impact would be offset by the recognition of revenue on shipments post adoption under Sell-In. The Company continues to evaluate the impact to revenues and related disclosures related to the pending adoption of the new guidance and the preliminary assessments are subject to change.
In January 2016, the FASB issued the final authoritative guidance regarding how companies measure equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method and how they present changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured under the fair value option.
Upon adoption, the Company will record all of the unrealized gains or losses from its investment in mutual funds and equity securities to retained earnings, and subsequent changes in fair value from such investments will be recorded under its consolidated statements of income.
The new authoritative guidance requires the recognition of assets and liabilities arising from lease transactions on the balance sheet and will also require significant additional disclosures about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows from leases.
The new authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions, or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its consolidated financial statements.


item2.txt
The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal year 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally.
Net revenues of $631.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 represented an 8% increase from the comparable prior year period of $585.7 million.
Net revenues from Advanced Products increased 30% in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 versus the comparable prior year period, but the declines from our Core Products partially offset the increase.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal years 2018 and 2017.


item3.txt
Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $3.29 billion as of December 30, 2017, and to our interest rate swap contracts in relation to the issuance of the 2024 Notes (as our interest rate swap contracts carry a variable interest rate based on LIBOR plus a spread).


item4.txt



part2.txt
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.
Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between us and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
Therefore, the foundries, particularly TSMC who manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner.
We cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a product for the full life of the product.
For example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand.
We may also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products and a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry.


