fls.txt
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.


item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of RF Industries, Ltd. and its divisions and three wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, hereinafter the “Company”) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of RF Industries, Ltd., Cables Unlimited, Inc. (“Cables Unlimited”), Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc. (“Comnet”), and Rel-Tech Electronics, Inc. (“Rel-Tech”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of RF Industries, Ltd. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
Instead, if “the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.” The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
2016-09, Compensation – Stock Compensation.
During March 2016, the Company announced the shutdown of its Bioconnect division, which comprised the entire operations of the Medical Cabling and Interconnect segment.
The closure is part of the Company’s ongoing plan to close or dispose of underperforming divisions that are not part of the Company’s core operations.
One vendor accounted for 46% of inventory purchases for the three months ended July 31, 2018.
The Company has arrangements with these vendors to purchase products based on purchase orders periodically issued by the Company.
Long-term portion of notes receivable of $0 and $21,000 is recorded in other assets at July 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017, respectively.
Accrued receipts represent purchased inventory for which invoices have not been received.
Level 3 - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.


item2.txt
These statements are only predictions.
Moreover, neither the Company, nor any other person, assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
We evaluate our estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventory reserves and contingencies on an ongoing basis.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the weighted average cost method of accounting.
Certain items in inventory may be considered obsolete or excess and, as such, we periodically review our inventories for excess and slow moving items and make provisions as necessary to properly reflect inventory value.
The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment of various factors.
Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
The purchase agreement for the Rel-Tech acquisition provides for earn-out payments of up to $800,000, payable through May 31, 2018.


item4.txt
Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems, consolidating activities, and migrating processes.


part2.txt
Part II.
Item 1.


