ITEM 4: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

As of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, our management, with the participation of Jeffrey Brown, our principle executive officer, and Tamara S. Allen, our principal financial officer, carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e), which includes inquiries made to certain other employees.
Based upon that evaluation, Mr. Brown and Ms. Allen concluded that, as of March 31, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) were effective.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

There have been no significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

From time to time, the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the normal course of business.
While the outcome of these proceedings and claims cannot be predicted, we currently are not a party to any legal proceedings, the adverse outcome of which, in management’s opinion, individually or in the aggregate, is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.
RISK FACTORS 

Please see those risk factors identified in Item1A, Risk Factors, of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company’s risk factors have not changed materially since December 31, 2017.
OTHER 

None.
EXHIBITS 

A list of exhibits to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is set forth on the Index to Exhibits immediately preceding such exhibits and is incorporated herein by reference.
Page 17 of 19 

Index to Exhibits 


Page 18 of 19 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
