Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
The acquisition of Dot Hill further expands the Company’s OEM-focused cloud storage systems business and advances the Company’s strategic efforts.
The Company has fulfilled its responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time.
The Company’s cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
Some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the “Superfund” law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity.
This provisional tax expense increased the Company’s effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 to approximately 3% and 24%, respectively.
Both the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017 consisted of 13 weeks and 39 weeks, respectively.
At each of these sites, the Company has an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties.
Its portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
The Company recorded an income tax provision of $18 million and $37 million in the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, respectively.Revenue for the nine months ended March 2018 quarter decreased modestly from the nine months ended March 2017 quarter as a result of price erosion, partially offset by an increase in exabytes shipped.
We recorded income tax provisions of $12 million and $231 million in the three and nine months ended March 2018 quarter, respectively.
Compared to the March 2017 quarter, revenue in the March 2018 quarter increased by $129 million as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped primarily in the enterprise market, partially offset by price erosion.
Compared to the corresponding three and nine months ended March 2017 quarter, gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the three and nine months ended March 2018 quarter decreased by 100 basis points in both periods, primarily driven by price erosion, partially offset by favorable product mix and cost containment efforts.
Marketing and administrative expense.Other Market Risks. ITEM 1.