Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
The Company is involved in a number of other judicial, regulatory or administrative proceedings and investigations incidental to its business, and the Company may be involved in such proceedings and investigations arising in the normal course of its business in the future.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
The Company has been identified as a responsible or potentially responsible party at several sites.
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (formerly referred to as the “cloud systems and solutions”) portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
The Company has fulfilled its responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time.
The Company’s income tax provision of $18 million in the three months ended September 28, 2018 included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense.
The Company’s income tax provision of $7 million in the three months ended September 29, 2017 included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense.
In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”) and storage subsystems.
Fiscal year 2019, which ends on June 28, 2019, and fiscal year 2018, which ended on June 29, 2018, are both comprised of 52 weeks.
There were no repurchases during the three months ended September 28, 2018.Marketing and administrative expense.
Revenue in the September 2018 quarter increased by $156 million from the June 2018 quarter as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped driven primarily by higher seasonal demand for our client and consumer markets, partially offset by price erosion.
We are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
Revenue in the September 2018 quarter increased by $359 million from the September 2017 quarter as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped driven primarily by higher demand for our enterprise and client markets, partially offset by price erosion.Other Market Risks.
Additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk. ITEM 1.