The Company’s HDD products are designed for nearline and mission critical applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge non-compute applications, where its products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, video and image applications, including surveillance systems, network-attached storage (“NAS”), digital video recorders (“DVRs”) and gaming consoles; and edge compute applications, where its products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing. The Company’s SSD product portfolio is mainly comprised of Serial Attached SCSI (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory Express (“NVMe”) and is designed for applications in enterprise servers and storage systems.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, reliability, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state drives use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory. In addition to HDDs and SSDs, SSHDs combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a high capacity hard disk drive and a smaller SSD acting as a cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. The three months ended October 4, 2019 consisted of 14 weeks and the three months ended September 28, 2018 consisted of 13 weeks. Fiscal year 2020, which ends on July 3, 2020, is comprised of 53 weeks and fiscal year 2019, which ended on June 28, 2019, is comprised of 52 weeks. The fiscal quarters ended October 4, 2019, June 28, 2019 and September 28, 2018, are also referred to herein as the “September 2019 quarter”, the “June 2019 quarter”, and the “September 2018 quarter”, respectively. The results of operations for the three months ended October 4, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the Company’s fiscal year ending July 3, 2020. 
Seagate Technology plc (“STX”) and its subsidiaries (collectively, unless the context otherwise indicates, the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Its principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”), solid state hybrid drives (“SSHDs”) and storage subsystems.
The Company’s income tax provision of $18 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018 included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense.
As of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019, the carrying value of the Company’s strategic investments was $115 million and $114 million, respectively. For the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, there were no upward or downward adjustments on equity investments. 
The Company’s income tax benefit of $2 million for the three months ended October 4, 2019 included approximately $11 million of net discrete tax benefit of which $8 million was associated with net excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation expense. 
The amount of loss recognized in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges was $1 million for the three months ended October 4, 2019. The amount of loss recognized in income related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationships and to the amount excluded from the assessment of hedge ineffectiveness was not material for the three months ended October 4, 2019.
Some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the “Superfund” law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. The Company has been identified as a responsible or potentially responsible party at several sites. At each of these sites, the Company has an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. The Company has fulfilled its responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time.
Ordinary shares—Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the board of directors (the “Board of Directors”). Upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, after required payments are made to holders of preferred shares, any remaining assets will be distributed ratably to holders of the preferred and ordinary shares. Holders of shares are entitled to one vote per share on all matters upon which the ordinary shares are entitled to vote, including the election of directors. 
The anti-dilutive shares related to employee equity award plans that were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share were not material for the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018.Revenue in the September 2019 quarter increased by $207 million from the June 2019 quarter primarily due to an increase in exabytes shipped and improved product mix, partially offset by price erosion.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the September 2019 quarter remained relatively flat compared to the June 2019 quarter.
Our income tax provision of $18 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018 included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense.
Compared to the September 2018 quarter, Product development expense for the September 2019 quarter decreased by $11 million primarily due to a $10 million decrease in other general expenses as a result of timing of materials purchases and a $5 million decrease in variable compensation expense, partially offset by an increase in expense from the additional fourteenth week in the September 2019 quarter. 
Compared to the September 2018 quarter, gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the September 2019 quarter decreased primarily driven by price erosion and factory under-utilization.
Compared to the September 2018 quarter, Other expense, net for the September 2019 quarter increased by $40 million primarily due to a $30 million loss resulting from the repurchase of certain long-term debt and an $11 million decrease in interest income mainly resulting from the redemption of our investment in TMHC in the June 2019 quarter.We did not have any material net gains or losses recognized in Cost of revenue, or Other, net for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the three months ended October 4, 2019. For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 13. Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.