Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
The Company is involved in a number of other judicial, regulatory or administrative proceedings and investigations incidental to its business, and the Company may be involved in such proceedings and investigations arising in the normal course of its business in the future.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.
The Company has been identified as a responsible or potentially responsible party at several sites.
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (formerly referred to as the “cloud systems and solutions”) portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.
The Company has fulfilled its responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time.
For the three and six months ended December 28, 2018, the PIK income earned was $15 million and $31 million, respectively.
The Company recorded income tax provisions of $14 million and $32 million in the three and six months ended December 28, 2018, respectively.
The Company recorded income tax provisions of $212 million and $219 million in the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
The anti-dilutive shares related to employee equity award plans that were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share were approximately 1 million for the three and six months ended December 28, 2018, and approximately 1 million and 2 million for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”) and storage subsystems.Marketing and administrative expense.
We are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
We recorded income tax provisions of $14 million and $32 million in the three and six months ended December 28, 2018, respectively.
Revenue for the six months ended December 28, 2018 increased by $160 million from the six months ended December 29, 2017 as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped due to higher demand for our high capacity HDD product portfolio, partially offset by price erosion.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness.Other Market Risks. ITEM 1.