The Company’s cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud. Its portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.  
Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Its principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHD”) and storage subsystems.  
On October 6, 2015, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Dot Hill Systems Corp. (“Dot Hill”), a supplier of software and hardware storage systems. The Company paid $9.75 per share, or $674 million, in cash for the acquisition. The acquisition of Dot Hill further expands the Company’s OEM-focused cloud storage systems business and advances the Company’s strategic efforts.  
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory. In addition to HDDs and SSDs, SSHDs combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.  
The results of operations for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period in the Company’s fiscal year ending June 29, 2018. The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. Both the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and the three and six months ended December 30, 2016 consisted of 13 weeks and 26 weeks, respectively. Fiscal year 2018 will be comprised of 52 weeks and will end on June 29, 2018. The fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2017, September 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016, are also referred to herein as the “December 2017 quarter”, the “September 2017 quarter”, and the “December 2016 quarter”, respectively.  
The Company recorded an income tax provision of $13 million and $19 million in the three and six months ended December 30, 2016, respectively. The income tax provision for the six months ended December 30, 2016 included approximately $4 million of net discrete tax benefits, primarily associated with the release of tax reserves associated with the expiration of certain statutes of limitation and prior year tax adjustments.  
The Company recorded approximately $27 million and $59 million of share-based compensation expense during the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, respectively. The Company recorded approximately $33 million and $73 million of share-based compensation expense during the three and six months ended December 30, 2016, respectively.  
March 2017 Plan - On March 9, 2017, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the “March 2017 Plan”) in connection with the continued consolidation of its global footprint. The Company closed its design center in Korea, resulting in the reduction of the Company’s headcount by approximately 300 employees. The March 2017 Plan was largely completed by the end of fiscal year 2017.  
For the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company recorded restructuring charges of approximately $33 million and $84 million, respectively, comprised primarily of charges related to workforce reduction costs and facility exit costs associated with the restructuring of its workforce during the fiscal year. The Company’s significant restructuring plans are described below. All restructuring charges are reported in Restructuring and other, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  
 (a) The amount of gain or (loss) recognized in income related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationships and the amount excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were less than $1 million for the three and six months ended December 30, 2016.  Revenue for the six months ended December 2017 quarter decreased by $145 million from the six months ended December 2016 quarter as a result of price erosion, partially offset by an improved product mix.  
Our cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud. Our portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.  
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the December 2017 quarter increased by 200 basis points from the September 2017 quarter primarily driven by favorable product mix and improved absorption of factories due to higher demand for the Company’s high capacity HDD product portfolio, partially offset by price erosion.  
Compared to the corresponding three and six months ended December 2016 quarter, gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the three and six months ended December 2017 quarter decreased by 100 basis points in both periods, primarily driven by price erosion, partially offset by favorable product mix and improved factory utilization resulting from cost savings due to our workforce reductions and manufacturing consolidation activities.  
   •   Our Company. Overview of our business.  
Compared to the December 2016 quarter, revenue in the December 2017 quarter increased modestly primarily due to increase in exabytes shipped, offset by price erosion.  We evaluate hedging effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in Cost of revenue on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. We did not have any material net gains (losses) recognized in Cost of revenue for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the three and six months ended December 29, 2017.  For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 14. Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  