item1.txt
License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud license and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option. License support contracts provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period and include internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net cloud license and on-premise license fees. Substantially all of our customers renew their license support contracts annually. 
Cloud services revenues include revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies, respectively, via cloud-based deployment models that we develop functionality for, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Our IaaS offerings also include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware  
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues primarily represent amounts earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware, application and industry-specific software products which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments. The vast majority of our cloud license and on-premise license arrangements include license support contracts, which are entered into at the customer’s option.  
Revenues from the sale of hardware products represent amounts earned primarily from the sale of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer servers, storage, and industry-specific hardware. Our hardware support offerings generally provide customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of the hardware products purchased and can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees. 
Our consulting services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services. Our advanced customer support services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services. We offer these advanced customer support services to Oracle customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services. Education services include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our cloud, software and hardware products.  
Revenues from cloud services provided on a subscription basis are generally recognized ratably over the contractual period that the services are delivered, beginning on the date our service is made available to our customers. We recognize revenue ratably because the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services throughout the contract period. Revenues from cloud services provided on a consumption basis, such as metered services, are generally recognized based on the utilization of the services by the customer.  
Oracle’s primary performance obligations with respect to license support contracts and hardware support contracts are to provide customers with technical support as needed and unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches during the term of the support period when they are available. Oracle is obligated to make the license and hardware support services available continuously throughout the contract period. Therefore, revenues for license support contracts and hardware support contracts are generally recognized ratably over the contractual periods that the support services are provided.  
Revenues from distinct cloud license and on-premise license performance obligations are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs. For usage-based royalty arrangements with a fixed minimum guarantee amount, the minimum amount is generally recognized upfront when the software is made available to the royalty customer. 
The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. 
We use judgment in determining the SSP for products and services. For substantially all performance obligations except cloud licenses and on-premise licenses, we are able to establish SSP based on the observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar customers. We typically establish a standalone selling price range for our products and services which is reassessed on a periodic basis or when facts and circumstances change. Our cloud licenses and on-premise licenses have not historically been sold on a standalone basis, as substantially all customers elect to purchase license support contracts at the time of a cloud license and on-premise license purchase. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net fees paid by the customer to access the license. We are unable to establish SSP for our cloud licenses and on-premise licenses based on observable prices given the same products are sold for a broad range of amounts (that is, the selling price is highly variable) and a representative SSP is not discernible from past transactions or other observable evidence. As a result, the SSP for a cloud license and an on-premise license included in a contract with multiple performance obligations is determined by applying a residual approach whereby all other performance obligations within a contract are first allocated a portion of the transaction price based upon their respective SSPs, with any residual amount of transaction price allocated to cloud license and on-premise license revenues.  
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017 was nominal. 
During the first half of fiscal 2019 and the full fiscal year of 2018, we acquired certain other companies and purchased certain technology and development assets primarily to expand our products and services offerings. These acquisitions were not significant individually or in the aggregate. 
The preliminary fair values of net tangible assets and intangible assets acquired were based on preliminary valuations, and our estimates and assumptions are subject to change within the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date). The primary areas that remain preliminary relate to the fair values of intangible assets acquired, certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes and residual goodwill. We expect to continue to obtain information to assist us in determining the fair values of the net assets acquired during the measurement period. 
We perform fair value measurements in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820, Fair Value Measurement. ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at their fair values, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact and consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the assets or liabilities, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of nonperformance. 
Based on the trading prices of the $57.9 billion and $58.0 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that we had outstanding as of November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using Level 2 inputs at November 30, 2018 and May 31, 2018 were $57.1 billion and $59.0 billion, respectively. 
Deferred cloud services and license support revenues and deferred hardware revenues substantially represent customer payments made in advance for cloud or support contracts that are typically billed in advance with corresponding revenues generally being recognized ratably over the contractual periods. Deferred services revenues include prepayments for our services business and revenues for these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. Deferred cloud license and on-premise license revenues typically resulted from customer payments that relate to undelivered products and services or specified enhancements.  


item2.txt
Oracle Corporation provides products and services that address all aspects of information technology (IT) environments—applications, platform and infrastructure. Our applications, platform and infrastructure offerings are delivered to customers worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models, including cloud-based, on-premise, or hybrid IT models, which enable customer choice and flexibility. We market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs.  
cloud services revenues, which includes revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which provide customers access to applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed. 
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments. Our cloud license and on-premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs. The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over their contractual terms. Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase license support contracts, as described above. 
Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy. In recent periods, customer demand has increased for our Oracle Cloud Services. To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications, platform and infrastructure licenses and license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads. We expect these trends to continue. 
Our hardware business, which represented 10% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support. The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products  
and services and to develop new hardware products and services. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products and associated software products such as Oracle Solaris. Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are entered into at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual terms. 
In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require management’s judgment in its application. There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our businesses’ revenues and expenses. As a result, each businesses’ revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2018, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on November 30, 2018 and 2017, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.13 million in the first half of fiscal 2019 (using 1.13 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.19 million in the first half of fiscal 2018 (using 1.19 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the first half of fiscal 2019 and first half of fiscal 2018 using the May 31, 2018 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. 
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which were partially offset by decreases in our hardware revenues and services revenues. The constant currency increases in our cloud and license revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud deployment models and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud and license support contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services. The constant currency decreases in our hardware revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were due to a reduction in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud and license technologies. The constant currency decreases in our services revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were attributable to declines in our consulting services and education services revenues. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 11% and 35%, respectively, 44% and 40%, respectively, and 45% and 25%, respectively, to the growth in our second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 total revenues, respectively.  
Certain acquired companies capitalized sales commissions associated with subscription agreements and amortized these amounts over the related contractual terms. Business combination accounting rules generally require us to eliminate these acquired capitalized sales commissions balances as of the acquisition date and our post-combination GAAP sales and marketing expenses generally do not reflect the amortization of these acquired deferred sales commissions balances. This adjustment is intended to include, and thus reflect, the full amount of amortization related to such balances as though the acquired companies operated independently in the periods presented. 
Restructuring expenses during the first half of fiscal 2019 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2019 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2019 Restructuring Plan). Restructuring expenses during the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2017 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2017 Restructuring Plan). Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in management’s discussion below under “Restructuring Expenses”, Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018. 
generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year. Our cloud services deliver certain of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support, and revenues are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market certain of our offerings through indirect channels. Costs associated with our cloud and license business are included in cloud services and license support expenses, and sales and marketing expenses. These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs. 


