item1.txt
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at its inception. Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. We generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of future payments, because the implicit rate of the lease is generally not known. ROU assets related to our operating lease liabilities are measured at lease inception based on the initial measurement of the lease liability, plus any prepaid lease payments and less any lease incentives. Our lease terms that are used in determining our operating lease liabilities at lease inception may include options to extend or terminate the leases when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options. We amortize our ROU assets as operating lease expense generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term and classify both the lease amortization and imputed interest as operating expenses. We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, and in such cases, we generally account for the components as a single lease component. 
At August 31, 2019, ROU assets of $2.0 billion related to our operating leases are included in other non-current assets; and operating lease liabilities of $587 million are included in other current liabilities; and $1.5 billion are included in other non-current liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Cash flow movements related to our lease activities are included in prepaid expenses and other assets and accounts payables and other liabilities as presented in net cash provided by operating activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended August 31, 2019.  
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts’ dates of execution. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Financing receivables sold to financial institutions were $705 million and $822 million for the three months ended August 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments, net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, net unrealized gains and losses related to certain equity securities and non-service net periodic pension income (losses). 
We perform fair value measurements in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820, Fair Value Measurement. ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at their fair values, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact and consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the assets or liabilities, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of nonperformance. 
Based on the trading prices of the $54.3 billion and $56.1 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that we had outstanding as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using Level 2 inputs at August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019 were $59.8 billion and $58.4 billion, respectively. 
Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, we recorded goodwill adjustments for the effects on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired during the period that such a change is identified, provided that any such change is within the measurement period (up to one year from the date of the acquisition). Amounts also include any changes in goodwill balances for the period presented that resulted from foreign currency translations.  
During fiscal 2019, our management approved, committed to and initiated plans to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations due to our acquisitions and certain other operational activities (2019 Restructuring Plan). In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, our management supplemented the 2019 Restructuring Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to take. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2019 Restructuring Plan are up to $584 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. We recorded $77 million of restructuring expenses in connection with the 2019 Restructuring Plan in the first three months of fiscal 2020 and we expect to incur the majority of the estimated remaining $31 million through the end of fiscal 2020. Any changes to the estimates of executing the 2019 Restructuring Plan will be reflected in our future results of operations. 
Deferred cloud services and license support revenues and deferred hardware revenues substantially represent customer payments made in advance for cloud or support contracts that are typically billed in advance with corresponding revenues generally being recognized ratably over the contractual periods. Deferred services revenues include prepayments for our services business and revenues for these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. Deferred cloud license and on-premise license revenues typically resulted from customer payments that related to undelivered products and services or specified enhancements.  
We also held certain foreign currency contracts that were not designated as hedges pursuant to ASC 815. As of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019, the notional amounts of such forward contracts we held to purchase U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.1 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, and the notional amount of forward contracts we held to sell U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.4 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively. The fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal as of August 31, 2019 and May 31, 2019. Net gains or losses related to these forward contracts are included in non-operating income, net.  
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On September 11, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $15.0 billion. As of August 31, 2019, approximately $848 million remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. We repurchased 89.5 million shares for $5.0 billion during the three months ended August 31, 2019 (including 0.7 million shares for $35 million that were repurchased but not settled) and 212.2 million shares for $10.0 billion during the three months ended August 31, 2018 under the stock repurchase program. 
In September 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.24 per share of our outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on October 24, 2019 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on October 10, 2019. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we issued 39 million restricted stock-based units (RSUs), substantially all of which were issued as a part of our annual stock-based award process and are subject to service-based vesting restrictions. These fiscal 2020 stock-based awards issuances were partially offset by forfeitures and cancellations of 6 million shares during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.  
On June 7, 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, reversing a previous decision of the U.S. Tax Court, held that the U.S. Treasury Department’s regulations requiring the inclusion of stock-based compensation expense in a taxpayer’s cost-sharing calculations were valid. Our financial statements have been prepared consistent with this outcome, but we will continue to monitor any ongoing developments, including the outcome of the taxpayer’s July 22, 2019 request for an en banc rehearing or a potential future appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, to determine if future changes are required. 


item2.txt
Oracle provides products and services that address enterprise information technology (IT) environments. Our products and services include applications and infrastructure offerings that are delivered worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models. These models include on-premise deployments, cloud-based deployments, and hybrid deployments (an approach that combines both on-premise and cloud-based deployment) such as our Oracle Cloud at Customer offering (an instance of Oracle Cloud in a customer’s own data center). Accordingly, we offer choice and flexibility to our customers and facilitate the product, service and deployment combinations that best suit our customers’ needs. Through our worldwide sales force and Oracle Partner Network, we sell to customers all over the world including businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. 
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers deploy within cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments. Our cloud license and on-premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs. The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues due to the point in time nature of revenue recognition for license transactions, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the contractual terms. Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase and renew license support contracts, as described above. 
Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy our applications and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy. In recent periods, customer demand for our applications and infrastructure technologies delivered through our Oracle Cloud Services has increased. To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure licenses and the related license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads. We expect these trends to continue. 
Our cloud and license business’ revenue growth is affected by many factors, including the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; our acquisitions; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amounts and volumes of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations. 
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term. The historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery, over those four quarterly periods.  
Our hardware business, which represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support. Each hardware product and its related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product and its related software are delivered to the customer and ownership is  
transferred to the customer. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products and associated software products such as Oracle Solaris. Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are entered into and renewed at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual terms. 
In addition, we discuss below the results of each our three businesses—cloud and license, hardware and services—which are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting. The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs. Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our three businesses. We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each business in the discussion below. 
Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our businesses’ revenues and expenses. As a result, each businesses’ revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2019, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on August 31, 2019 and 2018, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.11 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 (using 1.11 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.17 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 (using 1.17 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 using the May 31, 2019 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. 
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, due to growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which were partially offset by decreases in our hardware revenues and services revenues. The constant currency increase in our cloud and license revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud deployment models and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud and license support contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services. The constant currency decreases in our hardware revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 were due to a reduction in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of customers that purchased hardware support contracts. The constant currency decrease in our services revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was attributable to decreases in our consulting services and education services revenues, partially offset by increases in our advanced customer services revenues. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 2%, 44% and 54%, respectively, to the growth in our total revenues during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.  
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total operating expenses were flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2019. We incurred higher constant currency cloud services and license support expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 relative to the corresponding prior year period due to increased headcount and infrastructure expenses that supported the increase in our cloud and license business’ revenues. This constant currency expense increase was offset by certain expense decreases during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, which primarily consisted of lower hardware products expenses, support costs, and related sales and marketing expenses, all of which aligned to lower hardware revenues; and lower general and administrative expenses, which were primarily related to a $29 million litigation related benefit recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 that we do not expect to recur.  
In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support contracts assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud services and license support revenue amounts as presented in the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations. To the extent customers for which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts’ values over the respective contracts’ renewal periods. 
Restructuring expenses during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2019 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2019 Restructuring Plan). Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in management’s discussion below under “Restructuring Expenses”, Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019. 


