item1.txt
License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud license and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option. License support contracts provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period and include internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net cloud license and on-premise license fees. Substantially all of our customers renew their license support contracts annually. 
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues primarily represent amounts earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware, application and industry-specific software products which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments. The vast majority of our cloud license and on-premise license arrangements include license support contracts, which are entered into at the customer’s option.  
Our consulting services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services. Our advanced customer support services are offered as standalone arrangements or as a part of arrangements to customers buying other products and services. We offer these advanced customer support services to Oracle customers to enable increased performance and higher availability of their products and services. Education services include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our cloud, software and hardware products.  
The timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to our customers. We record an unbilled receivable, which is included within accounts receivable on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing. We record deferred revenues on our condensed consolidated balance sheets when revenues are recognized subsequent to cash collection for an invoice. Our standard payment terms are generally net 30 days but may vary. Invoices for cloud license and on-premise licenses and hardware products are generally issued when the license is made available for customer use or upon delivery to the customer of the hardware product. Invoices for license support and hardware support contracts are generally invoiced annually in advance. Cloud SaaS and IaaS contracts are generally invoiced annually, quarterly or monthly in advance. Services are generally invoiced in advance or as the services are performed. Most contracts that contain a financing component are contracts financed through our financing division. The transaction price for a contract that is financed through our financing division is adjusted to reflect the time value of money and interest revenue is recorded as a component of non-operating income, net within our condensed consolidated statements of operations based on market rates in the country in which the transaction is being financed.  
Our revenue arrangements generally include standard warranty or service level provisions that our arrangements will perform and operate in all material respects as defined in the respective agreements, the financial impacts of which have historically been and are expected to continue to be insignificant. Our arrangements generally do not  
Revenues from cloud services provided on a subscription basis are generally recognized ratably over the contractual period that the services are delivered, beginning on the date our service is made available to our customers. We recognize revenue ratably because the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services throughout the contract period. Revenues from cloud services provided on a consumption basis, such as metered services, are generally recognized based on the utilization of the services by the customer.  
Oracle’s primary performance obligations with respect to license support contracts and hardware support contracts are to provide customers with technical support as needed and unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches during the term of the support period when they are available. Oracle is obligated to make the license and hardware support services available continuously throughout the contract period. Therefore, revenues for license support contracts and hardware support contracts are generally recognized ratably over the contractual periods that the support services are provided.  
Revenues from distinct cloud license and on-premise license performance obligations are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs. For usage-based royalty arrangements with a fixed minimum guarantee amount, the minimum amount is generally recognized upfront when the software is made available to the royalty customer. 
The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. 
Many of our contracts include multiple performance obligations. Judgment is required in determining whether each performance obligation is distinct. Oracle products and services generally do not require a significant amount of integration or interdependency. We allocate the transaction price for each contract to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price (SSP) for each performance obligation within each contract.  
We use judgment in determining the SSP for products and services. For substantially all performance obligations except cloud licenses and on-premise licenses, we are able to establish SSP based on the observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar customers. We typically establish a standalone selling price range for our products and services which is reassessed on a periodic basis or when facts and circumstances change. Our cloud licenses and on-premise licenses have not historically been sold on a standalone basis, as substantially all customers elect to purchase license support contracts at the time of a cloud license and on-premise license purchase. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net fees paid by the customer to access the license. We are unable to establish SSP for our cloud licenses and on-premise licenses based on observable prices given the same products are sold for a broad range of amounts (that is, the selling price is highly variable) and a representative SSP is not discernible from past transactions or other observable evidence. As a result, the SSP for a cloud license and an on-premise license included in a contract with multiple performance obligations is determined by applying a residual approach whereby all other performance obligations within a contract are first allocated a portion of the transaction price based upon their respective SSPs, with any residual amount of transaction price allocated to cloud license and on-premise license revenues.  
Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. 
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments, net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, and non-service net periodic pension income (losses). 
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts’ dates of execution. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. Financing receivables sold to financial institutions were $274 million and $1.3 billion for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2019, respectively, and $360 million and $1.3 billion for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018, respectively. 
The preliminary fair values of net tangible assets and intangible assets acquired were based on preliminary valuations, and our estimates and assumptions are subject to change within the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date). The primary areas that remain preliminary relate to the fair values of intangible assets acquired, certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes and residual goodwill. We expect to continue to obtain information to assist us in determining the fair values of the net assets acquired during the measurement period. 
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2019 presented the historical results of Oracle for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2019, and certain other companies that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2019 based upon their respective previous reporting periods and the dates these companies were acquired by us, and the effects of the pro forma adjustments listed above. 


