item1.txt
   •    a $7.6 billion expense related to the application of the one-time transition tax to certain foreign subsidiary earnings that were generated prior to December 31, 2017, which expense was substantially recorded to non-current income taxes payable in our consolidated balance sheet and which corresponds to the amount we currently expect to periodically settle over an eight year period as provided by the Act;  
Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.  
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading.  
On November 7, 2016, we completed our acquisition of NetSuite Inc. (NetSuite), a provider of cloud-based enterprise resource planning (ERP) software and related applications and a related party to Oracle. We acquired NetSuite to, among other things, expand our cloud software as a service offerings with a complementary set of cloud ERP and related cloud software applications for customers.  
The total purchase price for NetSuite was approximately $9.1 billion, which consisted of approximately $9.0 billion in cash and $78 million for the fair values of restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed. In allocating the purchase price based on estimated fair values, we recorded approximately $6.7 billion of goodwill, $3.2 billion of identifiable intangible assets and $763 million of net tangible liabilities. Goodwill generated from our acquisition of NetSuite was primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017 for additional information regarding our acquisition of NetSuite.  
During fiscal 2017, we acquired certain companies and purchased certain technology and development assets primarily to expand our cloud-based offerings. These acquisitions were not significant individually or in the aggregate. We have included the financial results of the acquired companies in our condensed consolidated financial statements from their respective acquisition dates, and the results from each of these companies were not individually material to our condensed consolidated financial statements. The total of the purchase prices, certain of which were preliminary, for these acquisitions was approximately $3.0 billion, which consisted of approximately $3.0 billion in cash and $13 million for the fair values of restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed. As of February 28, 2018, we recorded $243 million of net tangible assets and $948 million of identifiable intangible assets, based on their estimated fair values, and $1.8 billion of residual goodwill related to our fiscal 2017 acquisitions. Certain amounts included in these totals were preliminary and subject to change during the respective measurement periods (up to one year from the respective acquisition dates) as we obtain additional information for the preliminary fair value estimates of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The primary areas of those preliminary estimates that are not yet finalized related to certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, identifiable intangible assets, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes and residual goodwill.  
We perform fair value measurements in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820, Fair Value Measurement. ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at their fair values, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact and consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the assets or liabilities, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of nonperformance.  
Based on the trading prices of the $60.9 billion and $54.0 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that were outstanding as of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using Level 2 inputs at February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017 were $62.0 billion and $56.5 billion, respectively.  
We issued the senior notes for general corporate purposes, which may include stock repurchases, payment of cash dividends on our common stock, repayment of indebtedness and future acquisitions. The interest is payable semi-annually. We may redeem some or all of the senior notes of each series prior to their maturity, subject to certain restrictions, and the payment of an applicable make-whole premium in certain instances.  
The senior notes rank pari passu with any other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Oracle Corporation. All existing and future indebtedness and liabilities of the subsidiaries of Oracle Corporation are or will be effectively senior to the senior notes. We were in compliance with all debt-related covenants at February 28, 2018.  
During fiscal 2017, our management approved, committed to and initiated plans to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations due to our recent acquisitions and certain other operational activities (2017 Restructuring Plan). In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, our management supplemented the 2017 Restructuring Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to take. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan are up to $1.1 billion and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. We recorded $516 million of restructuring expenses in connection with the 2017 Restructuring Plan in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and we expect to incur the majority of the estimated remaining $112 million through the end of fiscal 2018. Any changes to the estimates of executing the 2017 Restructuring Plan will be reflected in our future results of operations.  
Deferred software license updates and product support revenues and deferred hardware revenues substantially represent customer payments made in advance for support contracts that are typically billed on a per annum basis in advance with corresponding revenues being recognized ratably over the support periods. Deferred cloud software as a service (SaaS) and deferred cloud platform as a service (PaaS) and infrastructure as a service (IaaS) revenues generally resulted from customer payments made in advance for our cloud-based offerings that are recognized over the corresponding contractual term. Deferred services revenues include prepayments for our services business and revenues for these services are generally recognized as the services are performed.  
 Deferred new software licenses revenues typically resulted from customer payments that relate to undelivered products or specified enhancements, customer specific acceptance provisions, time-based license arrangements and software license transactions that cannot be separated from undelivered consulting or other services.  


item2.txt
Oracle Corporation provides products and services that address all aspects of corporate information technology (IT) environments—applications, platform and infrastructure. Our applications, platform and infrastructure offerings are delivered to customers worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models including cloud based, on-premise or hybrid, which enable customer choice and flexibility. We market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs.  
In addition to providing a broad spectrum of cloud offerings, we develop and sell our applications, platform and infrastructure products and services to our customers worldwide for use in cloud-based IT environments and other IT environments. An important element of our corporate strategy is to continue our investments in, and innovation with respect to, our products and services that we offer through our cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services businesses. We have a deep understanding as to how applications, platform and infrastructure technologies interact and function with one another within IT environments. We focus our development efforts on improving the performance, security, operation and integration of these differing technologies to make them more cost-effective and easier to deploy, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve their computing performance relative to our competitors. After the initial purchase of Oracle products and services, our customers can continue to benefit from our research and development efforts and deep IT expertise by electing to purchase and renew Oracle support offerings for their software and hardware deployments, which may include unspecified product enhancements that we periodically deliver to our products, and by renewing their cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS contracts with us.  
In recent periods, customer demand has increased at a greater rate for cloud-based IT deployment models relative to on-premise IT deployment models. To address this demand, we have increased our investments in and focus on the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based applications, platform and infrastructure technologies resulting in higher growth of our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues as customer preferences have pivoted to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and as customers migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing on-premise workloads. We expect these trends to continue. We believe that offering customers broad, comprehensive, flexible and interoperable deployment models for our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies is important to our growth strategy and better address customer needs relative to our competitors, many of whom provide fewer offerings and more restrictive deployment models. We enable our customers to evolve and transform to substantially any IT deployment model at whatever pace is most appropriate for them.  
Our Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that we host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Our IaaS offerings also include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management, maintenance and security services for on-premise, cloud-based, or hybrid IT infrastructure for a stated period. The majority of our SaaS, PaaS and IaaS arrangements have a duration of 12 to 36 months and we strive to renew these contracts when they are eligible for renewal.  
We offer customers the ability to license our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, for cloud-based and other IT environments. Our new software license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized when unrestricted access to the software license is granted provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software licenses revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud-based offerings in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the subscription period. New software license customers have the option to purchase software license updates and product support contracts, which grant rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Our software license updates and product support contracts are generally one year in duration and are generally billed in advance of the service being performed and are generally recognized as revenues as the software support services are delivered.  
We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and on-premise software products and services.  
Our cloud and on-premise software business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software licenses revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.  
Our hardware business, which represented 10% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, virtualization software, operating systems, and management software that are generally recognized as revenues upon delivery to the customer provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met, and also include related hardware support. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues as the hardware support services are delivered.  
Our services business helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies. We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience, and broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings include consulting services, advanced support services and education services and represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and on-premise software and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are impacted by our strategy for and the competitive position of our services; customer demand for our cloud and on-premise software and hardware offerings and the associated services for these offerings; our strategic emphasis on growing our cloud revenues; certain of our acquisitions; general economic conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; personnel reductions in our customers’ IT departments; and tighter controls over discretionary spending.  
   •    a $7.6 billion expense related to the application of the one-time transition tax to certain foreign subsidiary earnings that were generated prior to December 31, 2017, which expense was substantially recorded to non-current income taxes payable in our consolidated balance sheet and which corresponds to the amount we currently expect to periodically settle over an eight year period as provided by the Act;  
   •    the net favorable impacts of the Act on our tax profile and effective tax rate beginning on January 1, 2018, which we generally expect will continue into future periods.  
We expect the enactment of the Act to generally provide greater flexibility for us to access and utilize our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries as of January 1, 2018, as well as for prospective assets generated by these foreign subsidiaries’ future earnings and profits. We believe we have sufficient cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances, as well as access to other capital resources, if required, to settle the $7.6 billion one-time transition tax described above.  
   •    any qualitative and quantitative disclosures cannot specifically address or quantify the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products and services sold would have been different; and  
In addition, we discuss below the results of each our three businesses—cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services—which are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting. The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs. Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our three businesses. We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each business in the discussion below.  
Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our businesses’ revenues and expenses. As a result, each businesses’ revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2017, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on February 28, 2018 and 2017, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.23 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 (using 1.23 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.06 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 (using 1.06 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017 using the May 31, 2017 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency.  
In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as our total revenues grew while our total expenses declined.  


part2.txt
 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  


