item1.txt
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at its inception. Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. We generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of future payments, because the implicit rate of the lease is generally not known. ROU assets related to our operating lease liabilities are measured at lease inception based on the initial measurement of the lease liability, plus any prepaid lease payments and less any lease incentives. Our lease terms that are used in determining our operating lease liabilities at lease inception may include options to extend or terminate the leases when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options. We amortize our ROU assets as operating lease expense generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term and classify both the lease amortization and imputed interest as operating expenses. We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, and in such cases, we generally account for the components as a single lease component. 
At November 30, 2019, ROU assets of $1.9 billion related to our operating leases are included in other non-current assets; and operating lease liabilities of $584 million are included in other current liabilities, and $1.4 billion are included in other non-current liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Cash flow movements related to our lease activities are included in prepaid expenses and other assets and accounts payable and other liabilities as presented in net cash provided by operating activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the six months ended November 30, 2019.  
Trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred revenues are reported net of related uncollected deferred revenues in our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019. The revenues recognized during the six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, that were included in the opening deferred revenues balance as of May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were approximately $6.2 billion during each period. Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods and impairment losses recognized on our receivables were immaterial in each of the three and six months ended November 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. 
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments, net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, net unrealized gains and losses related to certain equity securities and non-service net periodic pension income (losses). 
We perform fair value measurements in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820, Fair Value Measurement. ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at their fair values, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact and consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the assets or liabilities, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of nonperformance. 
Based on the trading prices of the $51.6 billion and $56.1 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that we had outstanding as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using Level 2 inputs at November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019 were $56.6 billion and $58.4 billion, respectively. 
Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, we recorded goodwill adjustments for the effects on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired during the period that such a change is identified, provided that any such change is within the measurement period (up to one year from the date of the acquisition). Amounts also include any changes in goodwill balances for the period presented that resulted from foreign currency translations.  
During fiscal 2019, our management approved, committed to and initiated plans to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations due to our acquisitions and certain other operational activities (2019 Restructuring Plan). In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, our management supplemented the 2019 Restructuring Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to take. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2019 Restructuring Plan are up to $626 million and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. We recorded $125 million of restructuring expenses in connection with the 2019 Restructuring Plan in the first half of fiscal 2020 and we expect to incur the majority of the estimated remaining $25 million through the end of fiscal 2020. Any changes to the estimates of executing the 2019 Restructuring Plan will be reflected in our future results of operations. 
Deferred cloud services and license support revenues and deferred hardware revenues substantially represent customer payments made in advance for cloud or support contracts that are typically billed in advance with corresponding revenues generally being recognized ratably over the contractual periods. Deferred services revenues include prepayments for our services business and revenues for these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. Deferred cloud license and on-premise license revenues typically resulted from customer payments that related to undelivered products and services or specified enhancements.  
cross-currency interest rate swap agreements, which are used to protect us against changes in the fair values of certain of our fixed-rate Euro-denominated borrowings attributable to the movements in benchmark interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by effectively converting the fixed-rate, Euro-denominated borrowings, including the annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to variable-rate, U.S. Dollar denominated debt based on LIBOR. We have designated these swap agreements as qualifying hedging instruments and are accounting for them as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815; and 
cross-currency swap agreements, which are used to manage foreign currency exchange risk by converting certain of our fixed-rate Euro-denominated borrowings including periodic interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity to fixed-rate U.S. Dollar denominated debt and are accounted for as cash flow hedges pursuant to ASC 815. 
We also held certain foreign currency contracts that were not designated as hedges pursuant to ASC 815. As of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019, the notional amounts of such forward contracts we held to purchase U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.9 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, and the notional amount of forward contracts we held to sell U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.8 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively. The fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal as of November 30, 2019 and May 31, 2019. Net gains or losses related to these forward contracts are included in non-operating income, net.  
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On September 11, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $15.0 billion. As of November 30, 2019, approximately $10.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. We repurchased 181.0 million shares for $10.0 billion during the six months ended November 30, 2019 (including 0.8 million shares for $44 million that were repurchased but not settled) and 415.3 million shares for $20.0 billion during the six months ended November 30, 2018 under the stock repurchase program. 
In December 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.24 per share of our outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on January 23, 2020 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 9, 2020. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. 


item2.txt
cloud services revenues, which provide customers access to Oracle Cloud applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are generally billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed at the customer’s option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed over time. 
Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy our applications and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy. In recent periods, customer demand for our applications and infrastructure technologies delivered through our Oracle Cloud Services has increased. To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure licenses and the related license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads. We expect these trends to continue. 
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term. The historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize as revenues ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery; over those four quarterly periods.  
Our hardware business, which represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products, including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support. Each hardware product and its related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product and its related software are delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing  
hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products and associated software products such as Oracle Solaris. Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are entered into and renewed at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual terms. 
Our services business, which represented 8% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience, broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings include consulting services, advanced customer support services and education services. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and license and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are affected by many factors including, our strategy for, and the competitive position of, our services; customer demand for our cloud and license and hardware offerings and the associated services for these offerings; general economic conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; personnel reductions in our customers’ IT departments; and tighter controls over customer discretionary spending.  
In addition, we discuss below the results of each our three businesses—cloud and license, hardware and services—which are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting. The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs. Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our three businesses. We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each business in the discussion below. 
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in the fiscal 2020 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues, which were partially offset by decreases in our hardware revenues and services revenues. The constant currency increases in our cloud and license revenues during the fiscal 2020 periods presented were attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud deployment models and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud and license support contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services. The constant currency decreases in our hardware revenues during the fiscal 2020 periods presented were due to reductions in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues primarily due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of customers that purchased hardware support contracts. The constant currency decreases in our services revenues during the fiscal 2020 periods were primarily attributable to decreases in our education services revenues, partially offset by increases in our consulting revenues and advanced customer services revenues. In constant currency, total revenue growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions was partially offset by a decline in revenues in the EMEA region during the second quarter of fiscal 2020. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 28%, 15% and 57%, respectively, to the growth in our total revenues during the first half of fiscal 2020.  
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total operating expenses were flat in the fiscal 2020 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods. We incurred higher constant currency cloud services and license support expenses and higher constant currency cloud and license related sales and marketing expenses, both of which resulted primarily from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increases in our cloud and license business’ revenues; higher constant currency services expenses; and higher constant currency research and development expenses; in each case during the fiscal 2020 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods. These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by certain expense decreases during the fiscal 2020 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily lower hardware products costs and a related decrease in hardware sales and marketing costs, both of which aligned to lower hardware revenues; lower restructuring expenses; and lower amortization of intangible assets. 
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. 
For the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2020, the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to our income before provision for income taxes after adjusting for the effects of items within the table above, such as for stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, and certain other acquisition related items, resulted in an effective tax rate of 18.8% and 19.3%, respectively, instead of 17.7% and 16.0%, respectively, as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations. For the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019, the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to our income before provision for income taxes after adjusting for the effects of items within the table above, such as for stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, and certain other acquisition related items, and after excluding the effects of income tax reform (see footnote (7) below), resulted in an effective tax rate of 18.6% and 18.8%, respectively, instead of 15.9% and 13.5%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations. 
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications and infrastructure technologies through various deployment models, including license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and cloud license and on-premise license offerings. License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses, are purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year. Our cloud services deliver applications and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis  
via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support, and revenues are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments and are generally recognized up front at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market certain of our offerings through indirect channels. Costs associated with our cloud and license business are included in cloud services and license support expenses, and sales and marketing expenses. These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs. 


