The failure to successfully integrate the business and operations of Polycom in the expected time frame and achieve the expected synergies may adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company.
We own and operate a manufacturing facility in Tijuana, Mexico, which is responsible for assembly of a significant portion of our Enterprise products from materials and components sourced from various suppliers in Asia and North America, and other suppliers. Additionally, our Tijuana facility is primarily responsible for the packaging and final processing of most of our Consumer products after manufacturing and assembly by third parties, many of which are located in Asia, China in particular. Also, we generate a significant amount of our revenues from foreign customers.
We have significant manufacturing, assembly and packaging operations in Mexico and rely on third party manufacturers located outside of U.S., and a significant amount of our revenues are generated internationally, each of which subjects our business to risks of international operations.
Additionally, recently announced tariffs by the United States will, if implemented as currently proposed, levy tariffs on products, including those incorporating Bluetooth technology that are manufactured in China. A portion of our Consumer and Enterprise products contain Bluetooth technology and a number of our accessory products are manufactured in China. If implemented in their currently proposed form, the tariffs are expected to have a materially adverse impact on the profitability of our Consumer category. Similarly, proposals to impose tariffs, border taxes, and other actions related to the importation of goods from Mexico as well as renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada have been suggested by the United States. 
Triangle will be permitted to sell up to one-third of the shares issued pursuant to the acquisition on July 2, 2019, up to two-thirds of their shares beginning on January 2, 2020 and all of the shares after July 2, 2020. The average daily trading volume of our stock is limited, and any resale of the shares held by Triangle will increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading, which may depress the price of our stock. Additionally, the sale by Triangle or their successors of all or a substantial portion of the shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could impact the price of our common stock.
The integration of the combined companies may result in significant expenses and accounting charges that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.
We have incurred significant indebtedness to finance the acquisition of Polycom, which will decrease our business flexibility and increase borrowing costs, which may adversely affect our operations and financial results.
Our largest stockholder has the means to influence our business and operations, its interests may differ from those of our other stockholders, and sales by that shareholder into the market could impact the price of our common stock.
importing our products. Alternatively, if we deem it necessary to alter all or a portion of our domestic and international activities in response to such legislation or executive actions, our capital and operating costs may increase, possibly substantially.