item1.txt
We are accounting for the acquisition of Solacom under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC 805, "Business Combinations." The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their preliminary fair value as of February 28, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules.
Our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2019 include a nominal contribution from Solacom.
The preliminary fair value of customer relationships and backlog was primarily based on the value of the discounted cash flows that the related intangible asset could be expected to generate in the future.
The preliminary fair value of technology and trade name was based on the discounted capitalization of royalty expense saved because we now own the assets.
The allocation of the preliminary purchase price shown in the above table was based upon a preliminary valuation and estimates and assumptions that are subject to change within the purchase price allocation period (generally one year from the acquisition date).
The primary areas of the purchase price allocation not yet finalized include the purchase price (due to customary provisions in the purchase agreement related to adjustments to net working capital as of the acquisition date), a final assessment of accrued warranty obligations, income taxes and residual goodwill.
On April 29, 2019, we completed the acquisition of a state and local government NG-911 business, pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2019, by and among General Dynamics Information Technology, Inc., Comtech and Comtech NextGen LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech.
Immediately after our announcement of this acquisition, we hired approximately sixty GD NG-911 employees and commenced the integration of this business into our Commercial Solutions segment’s safety and security technology solutions product line.
The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their preliminary fair value as of April 29, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules.


item2.txt
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services including project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
Except for new presentation or disclosure requirements, the impact of adoption, both as of August 1, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2019, was not material to our business, results of operations or financial condition.
This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts).
As a result, these modifications form part of an existing contract and we must update the transaction price and our measure of progress for the single performance obligation and recognize a cumulative catch-up to revenue and gross profits.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.
Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly.
The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our command and control solutions and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our enterprise technology solutions product line.
For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time.
These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.
The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
Service-type warranties do not represent a significant portion of our consolidated net sales.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, internal costs, profit objectives and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
Almost all of our contracts with customers are denominated in U.S. dollars and typically are either firm-fixed price or cost reimbursable type contracts (including fixed-fee, incentive-fee and time-and-material type contracts).
Transaction prices for contracts with U.S. domestic and international customers are usually based on specific negotiations with each customer and in the case of the U.S. government, sometimes based on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services in accordance with applicable regulations.
Under typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for over time, amounts are billed as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals (e.g., monthly) or upon achievement of contractual milestones.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Exhibit 31.1 - Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


part2.txt
Exhibit 31.1 - Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


