item1.txt
and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three and six months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 are unaudited.
Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported condensed consolidated financial statements to conform to the current fiscal period presentation.
The fair value of the non-current portion of our Secured Credit Facility as of January 31, 2018 approximates its carrying amount due to its variable interest rate and pricing grid that is dependent upon our leverage ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter.
We believe the fair value of our non-current portion of capital lease obligations, which currently has a blended interest rate of 5.9%, would not be materially different than its carrying value as of January 31, 2018.
Our basic earnings per share ("EPS") is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares (including vested but unissued stock units, share units, performance shares and restricted stock units ("RSUs")), outstanding during each respective period.
Our diluted EPS reflects the dilution from potential common stock issuable pursuant to the exercise of equity-classified stock-based awards, if dilutive, outstanding during each respective period.
Pursuant to FASB ASC 260 "Earnings Per Share," equity-classified stock-based awards that are subject to performance conditions are not considered in our diluted EPS calculations until the respective performance conditions have been satisfied.
When calculating our diluted earnings per share, we consider the amount an employee must pay upon assumed exercise of stock-based awards and the amount of stock-based compensation cost attributed to future services and not yet recognized.
As a result of our adoption of ASU 2016-09, the amount of excess tax benefits assuming exercise of in-the-money stock-based awards is no longer included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share on a prospective basis and the denominator for our diluted calculations could increase in the future as compared to prior calculations.


item2.txt
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services (including telecom expense management, project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
We earn revenue from the sale of advanced communication solutions to customers around the world.
Sales of advanced communication solutions can consist of any one or a combination of items required by our customer including hardware, technology platforms and related support.
A large portion of our revenue from advanced communication solutions is derived from contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyer’s specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts and is recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 605-35.
For these contracts, we primarily apply the percentage-of-completion accounting method and generally recognize revenue based on the relationship of total costs incurred to total projected costs, or, alternatively, based on output measures, such as units delivered or produced.
Profits expected to be realized on such contracts are based on total estimated sales for the contract compared to total estimated costs, including warranty costs, at completion of the contract.
If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), pursuant to our adoption of FASB ASU No. 2017-04 in fiscal 2017, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows).
Based on our quantitative evaluation, we determined that our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their carrying values of at least 17.8% and 52.9%, respectively, and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired and that neither of our two reporting units was at risk of failing the quantitative assessment.
We provide warranty coverage for most of our products, including products under long-term contracts, for a period of at least one year from the date of shipment.
In connection with Tax Reform, during the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded an estimated net discrete tax benefit of $14.0 million, primarily related to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities associated with non-deductible amortization related to intangible assets.
Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other personnel-related expenses associated with product development.
We believe that we can achieve fiscal 2018 revenue and Adjusted EBITDA growth of approximately 5.0% as compared to fiscal 2017, and Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated fiscal 2018 net sales, comparable to the 12.8% we achieved in fiscal 2017.
In line with our original Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018, our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 is expected to be the peak quarter - by far - for consolidated net sales, GAAP operating income and Adjusted EBITDA.
We currently believe that our third quarter consolidated net sales and Adjusted EBITDA will be approximately 10.0% higher than the related amounts we achieved in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
GAAP operating income and Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated third quarter fiscal 2018 net sales, are expected to approximate 4.0% and 11.0%, respectively, with significant increases in each metric in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 - Adjusted EBITDA."


item3.txt



item4.txt
Exhibit 31.1 - Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


part2.txt
Exhibit 31.1 - Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


