item1.txt
and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018 are unaudited.
The acquisition has an aggregate purchase price for accounting purposes of $32,934,000, of which $27,328,000 was settled in cash and $5,606,000 was settled with the issuance of 208,669 shares of Comtech’s common stock at a volume weighted average stock price of $26.86.
The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their fair value as of February 28, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules.
The fair value of customer relationships was estimated primarily based on the value of the discounted cash flows that the related intangible asset could be expected to generate in the future.
The fair value of technology and trade name was estimated based on the discounted capitalization of royalty expense saved because we now own the assets.
On April 29, 2019, we completed the acquisition of a state and local government NG-911 business pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2019, by and among General Dynamics Information Technology, Inc., Comtech and Comtech NextGen LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech.
The acquisition of this NG-911 business from GD (the "GD NG-911 business") has a preliminary cash purchase price of $10,000,000 (which is subject to a net working capital adjustment).
Immediately after our announcement of this acquisition, we hired approximately sixty GD NG-911 employees and completed the integration of this business into our Commercial Solutions segment’s public safety and location technologies product line.
The purchase price, which is subject to a pending closing date balance sheet adjustment process under the purchase agreement, was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their preliminary fair value as of April 29, 2019, pursuant to the business combination accounting rules.
The fair value of customer relationships was estimated based on the value of the discounted cash flows that the related intangible asset could be expected to generate in the future.
The fair value of technology was estimated based on the discounted capitalization of royalty expense saved because we now own the assets.
The preliminary fair value of other liabilities was based on the difference in discounted cash flows related to remaining performance obligations under a certain acquired contract as compared to current market terms for similar arrangements that a market participant would expect.


item2.txt
Our solutions fulfill our customers' needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial.
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
•Government Solutions - provides mission-critical technologies (such as tactical satellite-based networks and ongoing support for complicated communication networks) and high-performance transmission technologies (such as troposcatter systems and solid-state, high-power amplifiers) to large government end-users (including those of foreign countries), large international customers and domestic prime contractors.
In fiscal 2020, we have rebranded our operating segment product groups to better align with our end markets.
This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts).
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.
Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly.
The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our mission-critical technologies and high-performance transmission technologies product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line.
For service-based contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line, we recognize revenue over time.
These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Exhibit 31.1 - Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


part2.txt
Exhibit 10.2 - Consulting Agreement


