item1.txt
During the six months ended January 31, 2019, the SEC issued Final Rule Release No. 33-10532 "Disclosure Update and Simplification," which revised certain of the SEC’s disclosure requirements that have become superseded in light of other SEC and or U.S. GAAP disclosure requirements.
Our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the three and six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 reflect our adoption of this final rule.
•Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance.
This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts).
Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process.
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs.
Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred.


item2.txt
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services including project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (or commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
Except for new presentation or disclosure requirements, the impact of adoption, both as of August 1, 2018 and for the three and six months ended January 31, 2019, was not material to our business, results of operations or financial condition.
This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyer’s specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts).
Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations.
As a result, these modifications form part of an existing contract and we must update the transaction price and our measure of progress for the single performance obligation and recognize a cumulative catch-up to revenue and gross profits.
For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations.
This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues.
Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment.
The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our command and control solutions and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our enterprise technology solutions product line.
For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time.
These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers’ actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide.
Point in time accounting is also applied to certain contracts in our command and control solutions product line.
The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery.
Service-type warranties do not represent a significant portion of our consolidated net sales.
The estimation of this variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information (e.g., historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available to us.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, internal costs, profit objectives and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
Almost all of our contracts with customers are denominated in U.S. dollars and typically are either firm-fixed price or cost reimbursable type contracts (including fixed-fee, incentive-fee and time-and-material type contracts).


item3.txt



item4.txt
Exhibit 31.1 - Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


part2.txt
Exhibit 31.1 - Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Exhibit 32.1 - Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


