item1.txt
and its subsidiaries ("Comtech," "we," "us," or "our") as of and for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017 are unaudited.
Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported condensed consolidated financial statements to conform to the current fiscal period presentation.
2017-09 "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718)" ("ASU 2017-09"), issued in May 2017, which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718.
An entity would not be required to account for changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification if there were no changes to the award’s fair value, vesting conditions and classification.
The fair value of the non-current portion of our Secured Credit Facility as of April 30, 2018 approximates its carrying amount due to its variable interest rate and pricing grid that is dependent upon our leverage ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter.
Our basic earnings per share ("EPS") is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares (including vested but unissued stock units, share units, performance shares and restricted stock units ("RSUs")), outstanding during each respective period.
Our diluted EPS reflects the dilution from potential common stock issuable pursuant to the exercise of equity-classified stock-based awards, if dilutive, outstanding during each respective period.
Pursuant to FASB ASC 260 "Earnings Per Share," equity-classified stock-based awards that are subject to performance conditions are not considered in our diluted EPS calculations until the respective performance conditions have been satisfied.
When calculating our diluted earnings per share, we consider the amount an employee must pay upon assumed exercise of stock-based awards and the amount of stock-based compensation cost attributed to future services and not yet recognized.


item2.txt
This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment.
•Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems.
We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services (including telecom expense management, project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
Sales of advanced communication solutions can consist of any one or a combination of items required by our customer including hardware, technology platforms and related support.
A large portion of our revenue from advanced communication solutions is derived from contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyer’s specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts and is recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 605-35.
For these contracts, we primarily apply the percentage-of-completion accounting method and generally recognize revenue based on the relationship of total costs incurred to total projected costs, or, alternatively, based on output measures, such as units delivered or produced.
Profits expected to be realized on such contracts are based on total estimated sales for the contract compared to total estimated costs, including warranty costs, at completion of the contract.
The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows).
Based on our quantitative evaluation, we determined that our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their carrying values of at least 17.8% and 52.9%, respectively, and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired and that neither of our two reporting units was at risk of failing the quantitative assessment.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded an estimated net discrete tax benefit of $14.1 million which, as a result of Tax Reform, primarily related to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities associated with non-deductible amortization related to intangible assets.
Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other personnel-related expenses associated with product development.
During the three months ended April 30, 2018, our Commercial Solutions segment received a large strategic multi-year contract award from the U.S. Navy's Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command in the amount of $59.0 million to purchase our SLM-5650B satellite modems, upgrade kits and related services.
Our Commercial Solutions segment was awarded a $10.1 million multi-year contract to provide one of the largest wireless carriers in the U.S. with a hosted, advanced location services platform.
During our third quarter, we were also awarded a two-year multi-million dollar contract to provide Next Generation ("NG") Text to 911 emergency services for the state of Maryland.
Given our expectations for the fourth quarter, we expect fiscal 2018 to be a year of net sales and Adjusted EBITDA growth.
Excluding a number of favorable adjustments throughout fiscal 2017, which aggregated $18.8 million and which are more fully discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, as filed with the SEC, fiscal 2018 is also expected to be a year of operating income growth.
•consolidated operating income, as a percentage of net sales, of approximately 5.2% which compares favorably with the 3.3% of consolidated net sales we achieved in fiscal 2017 (excluding the $18.8 million of favorable adjustments that are more fully discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, as filed with the SEC);
•Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, of close to 13.0%.
From a timing perspective, our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 is still expected to be the peak quarter for both consolidated net sales and Adjusted EBITDA but our third quarter of fiscal 2018 is now expected to be the peak quarter of consolidated operating income.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Exhibit 10.1 - 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, Amended and Restated, Effective March 6, 2018


part2.txt
Exhibit 31.1 - Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


