The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements. 
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements. 
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements. 
The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements. 
A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company’s fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Significant changes to our accounting policies as a result of adopting ASU-2014-09 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606) are discussed below. 
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies the performance obligation in its customer contracts or purchase orders. Most of the Company’s products have a single performance obligation which is satisfied at a point in time when control is transferred to the customer. Control is generally transferred at time of shipment when title and risk of ownership passes to the customer. For customer contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price and any discounts to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices. Payment terms are typically within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer. The Company offers standard warranties that do not represent separate performance obligations. 
Installation is a separate performance obligation, except for our digital signage products. For digital signage products, installation is not a separate performance obligation as the product and installation is the combined item promised in digital signage contracts. The Company is not always responsible for installation of products it sells and has no post-installation responsibilities other than standard warranties.  
Customer specific printed graphic branding    
Digital signage and related media content    
The Company also offers installation services. Installation revenue is recognized over time as our customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided through the installation process. 
Disaggregation of Revenue 
The Company disaggregates the revenue from contracts with customers by the timing of revenue recognition because we believe it best depicts the nature, amount, and timing of our revenue and cash flows. The table presents a reconciliation of the disaggregation by reportable segments. 
Practical Expedients and Exemptions 
On  July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09. “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective adoption method which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. This approach was applied to contracts that were not completed as of  June 30, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning  July 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for the prior period. The Company recorded a net increase to beginning retained earnings of $591,000 on  July 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, as described below. 
In  February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” The amended guidance requires an entity to recognize assets and liabilities that arise from leases. The amended guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods within those years, beginning after  December 15, 2018, or the Company’s fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the amended guidance will have on its financial statements.  
On  October 29, 2018, The Company announced that it will permanently close its New Windsor, New York manufacturing facility. The facility manufactures indoor lighting products and is included in the results of the Lighting Segment. Production will be transferred to the Company’s Erlanger, Kentucky and Blue Ash, Ohio facilities, also included in the Lighting Segment. The New Windsor facility has a workforce of 140 employees. 
On October 15, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed James A. Clark as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and President. Mr. Clark entered into an Employment Agreement as of October 16, 2018 which provides that his employment with the Company shall begin on November 1, 2018. The Employment Agreement also defines his compensation and benefit package. 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation within the cash flows from operating activities section and cash flows from financing activities section of the statement of cash flows. These reclassifications have no impact on net income or earnings per share.  
The Company’s corporate administration activities are reported in the Corporate and Eliminations line item. These activities primarily include intercompany profit in inventory eliminations, expense related to certain corporate officers and support staff, the Company’s internal audit staff, expense related to the Company’s Board of Directors, equity compensation expense for various equity awards granted to corporate administration employees, certain consulting expenses, investor relations activities, and a portion of the Company’s legal, auditing and professional fee expenses. Corporate identifiable assets primarily consist of cash, invested cash (if any), refundable income taxes (if any), and deferred income taxes. 
There was no concentration of consolidated net sales in the three months ended  September 30, 2018 or 2017. There was no concentration of accounts receivable at  September 30, 2018 or  June 30, 2018. 
The segment net sales reported above represent sales to external customers. Segment operating income, which is used in management’s evaluation of segment performance, represents net sales less all operating expenses. Identifiable assets are those assets used by each segment in its operations. 
    (a)   Includes shares accounted for like treasury stock.    
    (b)   Calculated using the “Treasury Stock” method as if dilutive securities were exercised and the funds were used to purchase common shares at the average market price during the period.    
In  February 2017, the Company amended its secured line of credit to a $100 million facility. The line of credit expires in the third quarter of fiscal 2022. Interest on the revolving line of credit is charged based upon an increment over the LIBOR rate as periodically determined, or at the bank’s base lending rate, at the Company’s option. The increment over the LIBOR borrowing rate, as periodically determined, fluctuates between 125 and 250 basis points depending upon the ratio of indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), as defined in the line of credit agreement. The increment over LIBOR borrowing rate will remain at 175 basis points for the next twelve months. The fee on the unused balance of the $100 million committed line of credit is 20 basis points. Under the terms of this line of credit, the Company has agreed to a negative pledge of real estate assets and is required to comply with financial covenants that limit the ratio of indebtedness to EBITDA and require a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. As of  September 30, 2018, there was $46.2 million borrowed against the line of credit, and $53.8 million was available as of that date. Based on the terms of the line of credit and the maturity date, the debt has been classified as long term. 
The Company is in compliance with all of its loan covenants as of  September 30, 2018. 
The Company paid cash dividends of $1,296,000 and $1,286,000 in the three months ended  September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Dividends on restricted stock units in the amount of $31,553 and $29,106 were accrued as of  September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. These dividends will be paid upon the vesting of the restricted stock units when shares are issued to the award recipients. In  November 2018, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share payable  November 27, 2018 to shareholders of record as of  November 16, 2018. The indicated annual cash dividend rate is $0.20 per share. 
The Company’s equity compensation plan, the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (“the 2012 Plan”), was approved by shareholders in  November 2012. The 2012 Plan covers all of the Company’s full-time employees, outside directors and certain advisors and replaced all previous equity compensation plans. In  November 2016, the Company’s shareholders approved an amendment to the 2012 Plan that added 1,600,000 shares to the plan and implemented the use of a fungible share ratio that consumes 2.5 available shares for every full value share awarded by the Company as stock compensation. The 2012 Plan allows for the grant of incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted and unrestricted stock awards, performance stock units, and other stock-based awards. Stock option grants or stock awards made pursuant to the 2012 Plan are granted at fair market value at the date of option grant or stock award.  
Stock option grants may be service-based or performance-based. Service-based options granted during fiscal year 2017 and prior fiscal years generally have a four year ratable vesting period beginning one year after the date of grant. Service-based options granted during fiscal year 2018 have a three year ratable vesting period beginning one year after the date of grant. The maximum exercise period of stock options granted under the 2012 Plan is ten years. Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) granted prior to fiscal year 2018 have a four year ratable vesting period. RSUs granted during fiscal year 2018 have a three year ratable vesting period. The RSUs are non-voting, but accrue cash dividends at the same per share rate as those cash dividends declared and paid on LSI’s common stock. If a stock option or RSU holder’s employment with the Company terminates by reason of death, disability or retirement, as defined in the Plan, the Plan generally provides for acceleration of vesting.  
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company granted Performance Stock Units (PSUs). PSUs are full value awards and consume the pool of available shares at the fungible rate of 2.5 for every full share awarded. The vesting of the PSUs is subject to the achievement of Return on Net Assets (RONA) and EBITDA objectives over a three year performance cycle. If certain one year performance objectives are met, one-third of the PSU’s will vest and be released. If the one year performance objectives are not met, the entire PSU awards may be earned over the remaining three-year performance cycle. 
The Company has a non-qualified deferred compensation plan providing for both Company contributions and participant deferrals of compensation. This plan is fully funded in a Rabbi Trust. All plan investments are in shares of common stock of the Company. The Company also awards its directors shares of common stock as part of their compensation. Stock compensation awards are made in the form of newly issued common shares of the Company.  
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company granted 422,900 serviced-based stock options with an exercise price of $4.94 and 134,350 PSUs at a fair value of $4.94. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company granted 724,037 service-based and performance-based stock options with an exercise price of $5.92 and 91,490 Restricted Stock Units with a fair value of $5.92. Stock compensation expense was $551,000 and $984,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
The Company  may occasionally issue a standby letter of credit in favor of third parties. As of  September 30, 2018, there were no such standby letters of credit issued. 
On  April 23, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors announced the appointment of an interim Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Operating Officer in connection with the departure of Dennis Wells, the Company’s former CEO. The $1,772,000 severance liability reported as of  June 30, 2018 represents the severance benefits Mr. Wells is entitled to receive under his employment agreement. Of the total $1,575,000 reported as of  September 30, 2018, $590,000 has been classified as a current liability and will be paid out over the next twelve months. The remaining $985,000 has been classified as a long-term liability. 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, management approved the closure of its 12,000 square foot leased facility in Hawthorne, California. The facility was used as a warehouse and for light assembly of light fixtures. The Company will move the light assembly to its Blue Ash, Ohio facility. The restructuring charges consist primarily of transportation costs to move inventory to Blue Ash, the impairment of equipment, costs to restore the leased facility, and severance benefits. The Company also incurred $435,000 related to the write-down of inventory which is not included in the table below. All restructuring costs are reported in cost of sales in the Lighting Segment. 
