Item 4.
Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) that are designed to assure that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide reasonable assurance only of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in weighting the costs and benefits of possible new or different controls and procedures.
Limitations are inherent in all control systems, so no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and any fraud have been detected.
Because of the inherent limitations, we regularly review our system of internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our processes and systems to improve controls and increase efficiency, and to maintain an effective internal control environment.
Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems, consolidating activities, and migrating processes.
As required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b), as of the end of the period covered by this report, management, under the supervision and with the participation of our then Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures.
Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of that date.
There has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended July 31, 2019 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures 

Nothing to report.
Item 5.
Other Information 

Noting to report.
Item 6.
Exhibits 




SIGNATURES 

In accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
