Item 2: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
This report contains forward-looking statements.
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.
In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “except,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential” or “continue,” the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology.
These statements are only predictions.
Actual events or results may differ materially.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
Moreover, neither the Company, nor any other person, assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements.
The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by the Company which attempt to advise interested parties of the factors which affect the Company’s business, including without limitation the disclosures made under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” under the caption “Risk Factors,” and the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in the Company’s Annual Report filed on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2018 and other reports and filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Critical Accounting Policies
On March 15, 2019, through C Enterprises, Inc. (“C Enterprises”), its newly formed subsidiary, the Company purchased the business and assets of C Enterprises L.P., a California based designer and manufacturer of quality connectivity solutions to telecommunications and data communications distributors.
The acquisition was determined not to be material and was accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, and the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were recorded by the Company at their estimated fair values in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined using the weighted average cost method of accounting.
Certain items in inventory may be considered obsolete or excess and, as such, we periodically review our inventories for excess and slow moving items and make provisions as necessary to properly reflect inventory value.
Because inventories have, during the past few years, represented up to one-fourth of our total assets, any reduction in the value of our inventories would require us to take write-offs that would affect our net worth and future earnings.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment of various factors.
The Company considers historical experience, the age of the accounts receivable balance, credit quality of the Company’s customers, current economic conditions and other factors that may affect a customer’s ability to pay.
Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill
The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment.
Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment.
We test our goodwill and trademarks and indefinite-lived assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate these assets may be impaired.
These events or circumstances require significant judgment and could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition and sale or disposition of all or a portion of a division.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
 Income Taxes
The Company records a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations.
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates as of the date of the financial statements that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
The calculation of the tax provision involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of GAAP and complex tax laws.
Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with management’s expectations could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.
Stock-based Compensation
The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to value the stock option grants.
This valuation is affected by the Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of inputs which involve significant judgments and estimates.
These inputs include the expected term of employee stock options, the expected volatility of the stock price, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividends.
 Overview
RF Industries, Ltd. (together with subsidiaries, the “Company”, “we”, or “our”) is a national manufacturer and marketer of interconnect products and systems, including coaxial and specialty cables and connectors, fiber optic cables and connectors, and electrical and electronic specialty cables and components.
Through its manufacturing and production facilities, the Company provides a wide selection of interconnect products and solutions primarily to telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, wireless and network infrastructure carriers and manufacturers and to various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in several market segments.
For the nine months ended July 31, 2019, most of the Company’s revenues were generated from the Custom Cabling segment from the sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies, and wiring harnesses (which accounted for 75% of the Company’s total sales for the nine months ended July 31, 2019).
Revenues from the RF Connector segment were generated from the sales of RF connector products and connector cable assemblies and accounted for 25% of the Company’s total sales for the nine months ended July 31, 2019.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
   ● As of July 31, 2019, the Company had cash and cash equivalents equal to $13.3 million.
   ● As of July 31, 2019, the Company had $32.1 million in current assets and $5.4 million in current liabilities.
   ● As of July 31, 2019, the Company had no outstanding indebtedness for borrowed funds.
During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, the Company’s backlog increased significantly to $11 million as of October 31, 2018.
Since the end of fiscal year 2018, the Company has filled most of the October 31, 2018 backlog.
However, the Company has continued to receive additional bookings while maintaining its level of shipments.
As a result, the Company had $8 million of backlog as of the current quarter ended July 31, 2019.
Since purchase orders are submitted from customers based on the timing of their requirements, the Company’s ability to predict orders in future periods or trends in future periods is limited.
Furthermore, purchase orders may be subject to cancellation from customers, although the Company has not historically experienced material cancellations of purchase orders.
As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of July 31, 2019, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the remainder of the current fiscal year.
The Company used cash of $3.0 million in operating activities during the nine months ended July 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end.
Net income of $2.7 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.4 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.3 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($4.4 million) and inventories ($0.5 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($0.9 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.1 million).
The Company used $0.9 million during the nine months ended July 31, 2019 for capital expenditures primarily for the purpose of increasing production and the purchase of the assets and business of C Enterprises.
In addition, during the nine months ended July 31, 2019, the Company paid $0.6 million of cash as dividends.
These net cash outlays were partially offset by $0.4 million that the Company received from the exercise of stock options.
The Company does not anticipate needing material additional capital equipment in the next twelve months.
In the past, the Company has financed some of its equipment and furnishings requirements through capital leases.
No additional capital equipment purchases have been currently identified that would require significant additional leasing or capital expenditures during the next twelve months.
Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary.
From time to time, the Company may undertake acquisitions of other companies or product lines in order to diversify its product and solutions offerings and customer base.
Conversely, the Company may undertake the disposition of a division or product line due to changes in the Company’s business strategy or market conditions.
Acquisitions may require the outlay of cash, which may reduce the Company’s liquidity and capital resources while dispositions may increase the Company’s cash position, liquidity and capital resources.
For example, on March 15, 2019, the Company purchased all of the assets of C Enterprises for $600,000 in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities.
C Enterprises is a California based designer, manufacturer, and distributor of fiber and copper custom cables and cable assemblies, and other related products used in the data center, networking, and wireless markets.
If the Company acquires other businesses in the future for a purchase price payable in whole or in part in cash, its future liquidity and capital resources could be adversely affected.
The Company has previously announced its intention to make additional acquisitions in order to expand its product offerings and customer base.
We are currently evaluating the financial impact of the import tariffs that were recently enacted in the U.S. and abroad.
While we do not believe that the financial impact on the Company of the enacted tariffs will be material, we recognize that there is uncertainty related to potential costs related to these actions.
Results of Operations
On October 31, 2018, the Company sold all of the shares of Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc. (“Comnet”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that was part of the Company’s Custom Cabling segment.
Accordingly, the Company’s results of operations for the both three and nine month periods ended July 31, 2018 have been adjusted to remove the results of Comnet, and the operating results of Comnet in 2018 are reported in the attached condensed consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations on the statement of operations.
During the three months ended July 31, 2018, Comnet had net sales of $2.0 million and income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes of $0.1 million.
During the nine months ended July 31, 2018, Comnet had net sales of $6.3 million and income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes of $0.4 million.
Comnet was sold as part of the Company’s business transformation toward a one company culture and operating structure to more efficiently leverage its capabilities across the entire business; Comnet’s business did not match the Company’s go-to-market strategy since it operated with a different sales model and margin profile than the rest of the Company.
On March 15, 2019, the Company acquired the assets and business of C Enterprises, L.P.
The C Enterprises business is now conducted by the Company through its new C Enterprises, Inc. subsidiary.
The Company paid $600,000 of cash, and assumed certain liabilities for the purchase of the C Enterprises business.
The financial results of C Enterprises during the period from March 15, 2019 to July 31, 2019 are included in the results of operations for 2019.
Three Months Ended July 31, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended July 31, 2018
Net sales of $15.5 million increased by 31%, or $3.7 million, for the three months ended July 31, 2019 (the “fiscal 2019 quarter”) when compared to the three months ended July 31, 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 quarter”).
Net sales for the fiscal 2019 quarter at the Company’s Custom Cabling segment increased by $3.4 million, or 39%, when compared to the fiscal 2018 quarter as a result of increased sales of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies and wiring harnesses.
Net sales for the fiscal 2019 quarter at the RF Connector segment increased by $0.3 million, or 10%, to $3.5 million as compared to $3.1 million for the fiscal 2018 quarter.
The increase in net sales reflects a full quarter of sales contribution from the Company’s acquisition of C Enterprises, as well as growth in both the Company’s traditional run rate business and its project work in the OEM and wireless carrier markets.
Gross profit for the fiscal 2019 quarter increased $0.2 million to $4.3 million primarily due to the increase in net sales.
Gross margins decreased to 28% of net sales from 34% of net sales in the fiscal 2018 quarter primarily due to product mix at the Custom Cabling segment as well as increased production wages at both segments in order to reward and retain production workforce and, in some cases, to meet state mandated minimum wage requirements.
Engineering expenses increased $0.1 million during the fiscal 2019 quarter to $0.4 million compared to $0.3 million for the fiscal 2018 quarter due to higher compensation expense.
Engineering expenses represent costs incurred relating to the ongoing development of new products.
Selling and general expenses increased $0.8 million to $2.6 million (17% of sales) compared to $1.8 million (15% of sales) in the third quarter last year due to the absorption of the selling and general expenses of the newly acquired C Enterprises, increased compensation primarily due to timing of bonus accruals, increased marketing costs with the Company’s distributors, and costs related to the evaluation of possible strategic acquisition transactions.
For the fiscal 2019 quarter, income from continuing operations for the Custom Cabling segment and the RF Connector segment was $1.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively, as compared to $1.8 million and $0.2 million for the comparable third quarter last year.
The decrease in income from continuing operations at the Custom Cabling and RF Connector segments was primarily due to the decrease in gross margins during the fiscal 2019 quarter.
The provision for income taxes was 22% and 19% of income before income taxes for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increase in the effective income tax rate from period to period was primarily driven by the elimination of the benefit from the domestic production activities deduction and the one-time benefit recorded in the prior year related to the reduction in the Company’s deferred tax liability due to the change in the federal tax rate, both as a result of the Tax Act.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed the Tax Act, which among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.
In December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (SAB 118), which allowed us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date.
As a result, we previously recorded a provisional estimate of the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements.
In the first quarter of 2019, we completed our analysis to determine the effect of the Tax Act and recorded no additional adjustments as of December 22, 2018.
All of the income from discontinued operations, net of tax, during the fiscal 2018 quarter represents the results from the operations of Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc., a former subsidiary of the Company that we sold on October 31, 2018.
For the fiscal 2019 quarter, income from continuing operations was $1.0 million and fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) was $0.11 per share as compared to an income from continuing operations of $1.6 million and fully diluted EPS of $0.17 per share for the fiscal 2018 quarter.
For the fiscal 2019 quarter, the diluted weighted average shares outstanding was 9,872,899 as compared to 9,729,608 for the fiscal 2018 quarter.
Nine Months Ended July 31, 2019 vs. Nine Months Ended July 31, 2018
Net sales of $39.8 million decreased by 1%, or $0.5 million, for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 (the “fiscal 2019 nine month period”) when compared to the nine months ended July 31, 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 nine month period”) despite the additional sales derived in 2019 from the newly acquired C Enterprises subsidiary.
The decrease in net sales is attributable to a decrease in net sales at the Company’s Custom Cabling segment, which decreased by $2.1 million, or 7%, to $29.7 million when compared to the fiscal 2018 nine month period net sales of $31.8 million.
The year-over-year decline in sales was a result of the largest series of orders that the Company has ever received in the year ago nine month period ended July 31, 2018.
Net sales for the fiscal 2019 nine month period at the RF Connector segment increased by $1.6 million, or 18%, to $10.0 million as compared to $8.5 million for the fiscal 2018 nine month period.
The Company’s gross profit as a percentage of sales in the fiscal 2019 nine month period decreased to 29% compared to 35% in the fiscal 2018 nine month period due primarily to product mix at the Custom Cabling segment as well as increased production wages at both segments in order to reward and retain production workforce and, in some cases, to meet state mandated minimum wage requirements.
Engineering expenses decreased by $0.2 million in the fiscal 2019 nine month period to $1.0 million compared to $1.2 million for the fiscal 2018 nine month period due to higher engineering activities to support the higher net sales in the fiscal 2018 nine month period.
Engineering expenses represent costs incurred relating to the ongoing development of new products.
Selling and general expenses increased by $0.4 million during the fiscal 2019 nine month period to $7.0 million from $6.6 million in the fiscal 2018 nine month period.
Selling and general expenses as a percentage of sales increased to 18% for the fiscal 2019 nine month period as compared to 16% for the fiscal 2018 nine month period.
The increase in selling and general expenses was primarily due to the absorption of the selling and general expenses of the newly acquired C Enterprises and one-time costs of $100,000 related to the acquisition of C Enterprises in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 partially offset by a decrease in commissions.
For the fiscal 2019 nine month period, income (loss) from continuing operations for the Custom Cabling segment and the RF Connector segment was $2.7 million and $0.7 million, respectively, as compared to $6.8 million and $(0.4) million for the comparable nine months last year.
The decrease in income from continuing operations at the Custom Cabling segment in 2019 was primarily due to lower gross margins during the fiscal 2019 nine month period, while the increase at RF Connector was primarily due in part to the increase in sales and gross margins.
The provision for income taxes was 22% and 20% of income before income taxes for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increase in the effective income tax rate from period to period was primarily driven by the elimination of the benefit from the domestic production activities deduction and the one-time benefit recorded in the prior year related to the reduction in the Company’s deferred tax liability due to the change in the federal tax rate, both as a result of the Tax Act.
All of the income from discontinued operations, net of tax, during the fiscal 2018 nine month period represents the results from the operations of Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc., a former subsidiary of the Company that we sold on October 31, 2018.
For the fiscal 2019 nine month period, income from continuing operations was $2.7 million and fully diluted EPS was $0.28 per share as compared to income from continuing operations of $5.1 million and fully diluted EPS of $0.54 per share for the fiscal 2018 nine month period.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Nothing to report.
