Intersegment sales for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 by the Commercial Solutions segment to the Government Solutions segment were $2,328,000 and $3,059,000, respectively. Intersegment sales for the six months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 by the Commercial Solutions segment to the Government Solutions segment were $4,949,000 and $6,485,000, respectively. There were nominal sales by the Government Solutions segment to the Commercial Solutions segment for these periods. All intersegment sales are eliminated in consolidation and are excluded from the tables above.
Amortization expense for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 was $5,268,000 and $6,032,000, respectively. Amortization expense for the six months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 was $10,537,000 and $12,087,000, respectively.
Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments. Included in domestic sales, are sales to Verizon which represented 10.5% and 11.1% of consolidated net sales for the three and six months ended January 31, 2018, respectively. Sales to Verizon were less than 10.0% of consolidated net sales for the three and six months ended January 31, 2017. 
Our Commercial Solutions segment serves commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communications technologies to meet their needs. This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) when they have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment. Commercial solutions products include satellite earth station communications equipment such as modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers, public safety technologies including those that are utilized in next generation 911 systems and enterprise technologies such as trusted location and text-messaging platforms.
Our Government Solutions segment serves large U.S. and foreign government end-users that require mission critical technologies and systems. Government solutions products include command and control technologies (such as mobile satellite transceivers used on the Blue Force Tracking-1 and Blue Force Tracking-2 programs), troposcatter technologies systems (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies products (such as solid-state high-power narrow and broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system ("EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices).
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017 or Form 10-Q for the three months ended October 31, 2017. Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other expense, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses or strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the definition of EBITDA used by other companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by our investors and analysts. We believe that investors and analysts may use Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, in assessing our performance and comparability of our results with other companies. These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP in the above table, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Investors are advised to carefully review the GAAP financial results that are disclosed in our SEC filings. We have not quantitatively reconciled our fiscal 2018 Adjusted EBITDA target to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because items such as stock-based compensation, adjustments to the provision for income taxes, amortization of intangibles and interest expense, which are specific items that impact these measures, have not yet occurred, are out of our control, or cannot be predicted. For example, quantification of stock-based compensation expense requires inputs such as the number of shares granted and market price that are not currently ascertainable. Accordingly, reconciliations to the Non-GAAP forward looking metrics are not available without unreasonable effort and such unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our financial results. 
The increase during the most recent six month period in our Commercial Solutions segment’s operating income, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily due to higher net sales, overall favorable product mix changes and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above. We expect fiscal 2018 operating income in our Commercial Solutions segment, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to increase as compared to fiscal 2017.
The increase during the most recent fiscal quarter in our Commercial Solutions segment’s operating income, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily due to higher net sales, overall favorable product mix changes and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above. We expect fiscal 2018 operating income in our Commercial Solutions segment, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to increase as compared to fiscal 2017.
Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2018 selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be comparable to fiscal 2017. 
Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2018 selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be comparable to fiscal 2017. 
Gross Profit. Gross profit was $50.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to $53.2 million for the three months ended January 31, 2017, a decrease of $2.4 million. This decrease in gross profit dollars was largely driven by lower net sales in our Government Solutions segment, including the absence of $2.5 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, both of which are discussed above. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, was 38.0% for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to 38.3% for the three months ended January 31, 2017. Excluding the $2.5 million of intellectual property license fees that we earned supporting the U.S. Army’s BFT-1 system, gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2017 would have been 37.1%. The increase from 37.1% to 38.0% in fiscal 2018 was primarily driven by favorable product mix changes including a greater percentage of our consolidated net sales during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 occurring in our Commercial Solutions segment. Our Commercial Solutions segment historically achieves higher gross margins than our Government Solutions segment. Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below.
Gross Profit. Gross profit was $98.5 million and $105.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease of $6.8 million in gross profit dollars was largely driven by lower net sales in our Government Solutions segment, including the absence of $5.0 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, both of which are discussed above. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, increased from 38.3% for the six months ended January 31, 2017 to 38.6% for the six months ended January 31, 2018. The increase in gross profit percentage is largely attributable to a greater percentage of our consolidated net sales during the six months ended January 31, 2018 occurring in our Commercial Solutions segment, which historically achieves higher gross margins than our Government Solutions segment, as well as a favorable warranty settlement during the six months ended January 31, 2018 that resulted in a $0.7 million reduction to cost of sales (which is reflected in our unallocated segment). Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below.
Net sales during the three months ended January 31, 2018 of both enterprise technology solutions (such as our location and messaging platforms) and safety and security technology solutions (such as our wireless and next generation 911 ("NG911") platforms) were higher as compared to the net sales we achieved during the three months ended January 31, 2017. During our second quarter of fiscal 2018, we were awarded a large multi-year strategic contract valued at $134.0 million to provide safety and security technology solutions to one of the largest wireless carriers in the U.S. As a result of this new contract, we will become the leading provider to this wireless carrier for E911 services for its nationwide 3G, 4G and 5G networks. Our advanced solutions provided to this carrier will support both current 911 infrastructure and NG911 networks which enable text messaging, image, data and video processing. This new contract, which was issued in the form of an amendment to an existing contract and previously received orders, resulted in a significant increase to our backlog. We believe that our enterprise technology solutions continue to gain traction, particularly in international markets. During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we received $3.8 million of orders from a major Middle East service provider for a complete suite of our location based services that will be used to support multiple application deployments, including mobile devices and Internet of Things. In our view, these contract awards validate that our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions are more advanced, secure and reliable than any existing competitive technology. Overall market conditions remain favorable and we expect that aggregate net sales of these solutions in fiscal 2018 will be higher than in fiscal 2017.
On March 7, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on May 18, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 18, 2018. Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, as well as Board approval. 
The increase in our Commercial Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, during the most recent fiscal quarter was primarily due to higher net sales, overall favorable product mix changes and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above. 
Given our year-to-date performance, we enter the second half of fiscal 2018 with strong positive business momentum and, as a result, are increasing our targeted growth rates. We believe that we can achieve fiscal 2018 revenue and Adjusted EBITDA growth of approximately 5.0% as compared to fiscal 2017, and Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated fiscal 2018 net sales, comparable to the 12.8% we achieved in fiscal 2017. We believe these targeted metrics demonstrate the strength of our business, particularly considering that our fiscal 2017 results include the benefit of $6.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees (which the U.S. Army is no longer obligated to pay us to support the BFT-1 system). If order flow remains strong and we are able to achieve all of our fiscal 2018 business goals, it is possible that our targeted fiscal 2018 revenue and Adjusted EBITDA growth rates could be higher. Exhibit 101.LAB - XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Linkbase DocumentItem 1. Legal Proceedings