ITEM 1. Financial statements
Notes to financial statements
1. Description of business, including segment and geographic area information
2. Basis of presentation and significant accounting policies and practices
Basis of presentation
Significant accounting policies and practices
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term. On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments. Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
We have agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component. Leases with an initial lease term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet; we recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Earnings per share (EPS)
We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents. Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to RSUs and excluded from the calculation of income allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below. 
Potentially dilutive securities representing 6 million and 4 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, and 7 million and 4 million shares outstanding during the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Derivatives and hedging
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt. The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Fair values of financial instruments
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of September 30, 2019. Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value. The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments. As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of long-term debt, including the current portion, was $5.80 billion, and the estimated fair value was $6.32 billion. The estimated fair value is measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs. See Note 4 for a description of fair value and the definition of Level 2 inputs.
Changes in accounting standards – adopted standards for current period
We adopted ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (ASC 842) effective January 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective transition method applied to leases existing at, or entered into after, the adoption date. The reported results for 2019 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior periods are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 840, Leases. In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance that allowed us to apply prior conclusions related to lease definition, classification and initial direct costs.
The adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of $229 million of lease liabilities with corresponding lease assets as of January 1, 2019. The standard did not materially impact our results of operations and had no impact on cash flows.
Changes in accounting standards – standards not yet adopted
4. Valuation of debt and equity investments and certain liabilities
Debt and equity investments measured at fair value
Other equity investments
Proceeds from sales, redemptions and maturities of short-term available-for-sale investments were $220 million and $1.72 billion for the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $2.00 billion and $4.55 billion for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively. Gross realized gains and losses from these sales were not material.
There were no other-than-temporary declines and impairments in the values of our debt investments in the first nine months of 2019 or 2018.
Fair-value considerations
The three-level hierarchy discussed below indicates the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair-value measurements.
•Level 1 – Uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
Goodwill was $4.36 billion as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018. There was no impairment of goodwill during the first nine months of 2019 or 2018.
Acquisition charges
Acquisition charges represent the ongoing amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of National Semiconductor Corporation. These amounts are included in Other for segment reporting purposes, consistent with how management measures the performance of its segments.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles was $79 million and $80 million for the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $238 million and $239 million for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively. Fully amortized assets are written off against accumulated amortization.
6. Postretirement benefit plans
7. Debt and lines of credit
We maintain a line of credit to support commercial paper borrowings, if any, and to provide additional liquidity through bank loans. As of September 30, 2019, we had a variable-rate revolving credit facility from a consortium of investment-grade banks that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024. The interest rate on borrowings under this credit facility, if drawn, is indexed to the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). As of September 30, 2019, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding.
Long-term debt
We retired $750 million of maturing debt in August 2019.
In the first quarter of 2019, we issued a principal amount of $750 million of fixed-rate, long-term debt due in 2039. We incurred $7 million of issuance and other related costs. We received $743 million in proceeds, net of the original issuance discount, to be used for general corporate purposes.
In the third quarter of 2019, we issued a principal amount of $750 million of fixed-rate, long-term debt due in 2029. We incurred $5 million of issuance and other related costs. We received $748 million in proceeds, net of the original issuance discount, to be used for general corporate purposes.
Interest and debt expense was $43 million and $36 million for the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $125 million and $89 million for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively. This was net of the amortized discounts, premiums and issuance costs. Capitalized interest was not material.
We conduct certain operations in leased facilities and also lease a portion of our data processing and other equipment. In addition, certain long-term supply agreements to purchase industrial gases are accounted for as operating leases. Lease agreements frequently include renewal provisions and require us to pay real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
General
11. Supplemental financial information
In April 2019, we sold our manufacturing facility in Greenock, Scotland.
Details on amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes, to net income
Stock compensation
Total shares of 4,404,183 and 13,381,166 were issued from treasury shares during the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, related to stock compensation. 
ITEM 1A. Risk factors
