 The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Scientific Industries, Inc., Altamira Instruments, Inc. (“Altamira”), a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary, and Scientific Bioprocessing, Inc. (“SBI”), a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary, and Scientific Packaging Industries, Inc., an inactive wholly-owned subsidiary (all collectively referred to as the “Company”).
This update is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
 In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230)”, requiring that the statement of cash flows explain the change in the total cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents.
  Trade accounts receivable, current of $67,100 and $278,200, and trade accounts receivable, long term of $245,400 for both periods were reclassified to contract assets, current; and contract assets, less current portion, respectively, on the balance sheet as of September 30, and June 30, 2018.
In addition the Company’s Bioprocessing Systems Operations’ revenues are comprised of royalty revenues.
All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies its performance obligation(s) under the contract (either implicit or explicit) by transferring the promised product or service to its customer either when (or as) its customer obtains control of the product or service.
 Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products or providing services.
 The FASB defines the fair value of financial instruments as the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
 Level 1 - Inputs that are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active markets.
The Company calculated the fair value of its Level 1 and 2 instruments based on the exchange traded price of similar or identical instruments where available or based on other observable instruments.
The Company has not changed its valuation techniques in measuring the fair value of any financial assets and liabilities during the period.
 The fair value of the contingent consideration obligations are based on a probability weighted approach derived from the estimates of earn-out criteria and the probability assessment with respect to the likelihood of achieving those criteria.
The measurement is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, therefore, the Company classifies this liability as Level 3 in the following tables.
 Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired in connection with the Company’s acquisitions.
 Total amortization expense was $61,000 and $61,100 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.