fls.txt



item1.txt
 The accompanying unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and regulations for reporting on Form 10-Q.
 The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Scientific Industries, Inc., Altamira Instruments, Inc. (“Altamira”), a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary, and Scientific Bioprocessing, Inc. (“SBI”), a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary, and Scientific Packaging Industries, Inc., an inactive wholly-owned subsidiary (all collectively referred to as the “Company”).
2016-02, Leases, which replaces previous lease guidance in its entirety with ASC 842 and requires lessees to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for those arrangements classified as operating leases under previous guidance, with the exception of leases with a term of twelve months or less.
 The Company records revenues in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as amended” (“ASC Topic 606”).
 Benchtop Laboratory Equipment sales are comprised primarily of standard benchtop laboratory equipment from its stock to laboratory equipment distributors, or to end users primarily via e-commerce.
Due to the size and nature of the instruments, the Company subjects the instruments to an extensive factory acceptance testing process prior to shipment to ensure that they are fully operational once they reach the customer’s site.
Normally, the Company warrantees its instruments for a period of twelve months for parts and labor which normally consists of replacement of small components or software support.
Approximately 33% and 25% of total Benchtop Laboratory Equipment sales were derived from the Torbal Scales Division for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
  For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, three customers accounted for approximately 23% (both periods) of net sales of the Benchtop Laboratory Equipment Operations (18% and 19% of the Company’s total revenues).
Sales to two customers during the three months ended September 30, 2019 accounted for approximately 90% of the Catalyst Research Instruments Operations revenues and 6% of the Company’s total revenues.
Sales to three customers during the three months ended September 30, 2018 accounted for approximately 83% of the Catalyst Research Instrument Operations’ revenues and 9% of the Company’s total revenues.
 The FASB defines the fair value of financial instruments as the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
 Level 1 - Inputs that are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active markets.
 Level 2 - Quoted prices in markets that are not considered to be active or financial instruments for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly.
The Company calculated the fair value of its Level 1 and 2 instruments based on the exchange traded price of similar or identical instruments where available or based on other observable instruments.
 The fair value of the contingent consideration obligations are based on a probability weighted approach derived from the estimates of earn-out criteria and the probability assessment with respect to the likelihood of achieving those criteria.
The measurement is based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, therefore, the Company classifies this liability as Level 3 in the following tables.


