fls.txt
 Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about expected earnings, revenues, growth, liquidity or other financial matters.


item1.txt
Net sales in both the mobile networks and information technology and data communications markets were relatively flat in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017.
The Company may utilize the Revolving Credit Facility for general corporate purposes.
Excluding the effect of these items, the Adjusted Effective Tax Rate, a non-GAAP financial measure defined in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section below, for the first three months of 2018 and 2017 was 25.5% and 26.5%, respectively, as reconciled in the table below to the comparable effective tax rate based on GAAP results.
   ·    Free Cash Flow is defined as Net cash provided by operating activities (“operating cash flow” - as reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP) less capital expenditures (as reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP), both of which are derived from the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow.
 There were no anti-dilutive common shares excluded from the computations above for both the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Although products are almost always sold at fixed prices, in determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund (due to returns) or adjustment (due to volume discounts, rebates, or price concessions) to determine the net consideration we expect to be entitled to.
 The Company has a $2,000.0 unsecured credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which matures March 2021 and gives the Company the ability to borrow at a spread over LIBOR.
Based on their evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
The Company may borrow under its Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program.
 Level 2 Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose significant value drivers are observable.
 The Company does not have any significant financial or non-financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.
 Net sales were $1,866.9 in the first quarter of 2018 compared to $1,560.1 in the first quarter of 2017, which represented an increase of 20% in U.S. dollars, 16% in constant currencies and 12% organically over the same prior year quarter.
Accrued pension and postretirement benefit obligations decreased $81.5 to $190.5 primarily due to the Company’s voluntary cash contribution of approximately $81.0 in January 2018 to fully fund the Company’s U.S. Plans.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 4.2 million shares of its common stock for $382.0.
Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires entities to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services.
The Company believes that its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment position on hand, ability to generate future cash flow from operations, availability under its credit facilities, and access to capital markets (including the recent issuances of both the 2020 Senior Notes and 2024 Senior Notes in April 2017) provide adequate liquidity to meet its obligations for the next twelve months and the foreseeable future, including the repayment of the $750.0 outstanding principal amount of 2.55% Senior Notes due January 2019 (the “2.55% Notes”).
The Company uses debt financing to lower the overall cost of capital and increase return on stockholders’ equity.
earth metals and plastic resins; litigation or environmental matters including changes to laws and regulations that the Company may be subject to; and cybersecurity threats or incidents that could arise.
 In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
For the first quarter of 2018, cash used in financing activities was driven primarily by repurchases of the Company’s common stock of $382.0, net repayments of long-term debt of $304.8, dividend payments of $58.1 and distributions to shareholders of noncontrolling interests of $3.9, partially offset by cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $20.6.
As of March 31, 2018, there were 23,016,700 shares of Common Stock available for the granting of additional stock options under the 2017 Employee Option Plan.
The Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of any series of Senior Notes, subject to certain terms and conditions.
Expected share price volatility is calculated based on the historical volatility of the Common Stock and implied volatility derived from related exchange traded options.
Such amount is calculated by subtracting current year net sales translated at average foreign currency exchange rates for the respective prior periods from current year reported net sales, taken as a percentage of the respective prior period net sales.
 The Company has a $2,000.0 unsecured credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which matures March 2021 and gives the Company the ability to borrow at a spread over LIBOR.
For the first quarter of 2018, cash used in financing activities was driven primarily by repurchases of the Company’s common stock of $382.0, net repayments of long-term debt of $304.8, dividend payments of $58.1 and distributions to shareholders of noncontrolling interests of $3.9, partially offset by cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $20.6.


item2.txt



item3.txt
 None.


item4.txt
 Item 5.


part2.txt
 Item 1A.


