fls.txt
Such forward-looking statements may also be impacted by, among other things, clarifications to and additional guidance under the Tax Act.


item1.txt
 The Company has a commercial paper program pursuant to which the Company issues short-term unsecured commercial paper notes (“U.S.
Other current assets increased $81.8 to $278.6, primarily due to the increase in other receivables as well as the recording of contract assets of $27.9 as of September 30, 2018 as a result of the adoption of Topic 606.
The following is a summary of the Company’s revenue recognition and related accounting policies and disclosures resulting from the adoption of Topic 606.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective transition method, resulting in accounting policy changes surrounding revenue recognition which replaced certain related policies discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (in Item 7) and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (in Note 1) of the Company’s 2017 Annual Report.
No additional stock options will be granted under the 2009 Employee Option Plan.
The Company’s debt service requirements consist primarily of principal and interest on the Senior Notes and the 2028 Euro Notes, the Revolving Credit Facility and the Commercial Paper Programs.
These three components were provisional amounts recorded in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
 Stock-based compensation expense includes the estimated effects of forfeitures, which are adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ or are expected to differ from such estimates.
Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires entities to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services.
In the first nine months of 2018, net cash used in investing activities was driven primarily by the use of $158.9 in cash to fund acquisitions, along with capital expenditures (net of disposals) of $204.4, partially offset by net sales and maturities of short-term investments of $13.0.
Based on their evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Research and development expenses represented approximately 2.6% and 2.7% of net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, and represented 2.8% of net sales for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2017.
The vast majority of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2018 is located outside of the United States.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
 On April 24, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved an increase to its quarterly dividend rate from $0.19 to $0.23 per share effective with dividends declared in the second quarter of 2018.
The U.S. Senior Notes contain certain financial and non-financial covenants.
Accounts payable increased $138.4 to $1,014.0, primarily as a result of increased purchasing activity due to higher sales levels, which was partially offset by payments on outstanding payables and Translation.
The average expected life is based on the contractual term of the option and expected exercise and historical post-vesting termination experience.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires payment of certain annual agency and commitment fees and requires that the Company satisfy certain financial covenants.
Days sales outstanding at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were approximately 73 days.
Participation in these plans is based on certain eligibility requirements.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
This method reasonably depicts when and as control of the goods transfers to the customer, since it measures our progress in producing the goods, which is generally commensurate with this transfer of control.
Inventories increased $138.6 to $1,245.5, primarily to support higher sales levels, partially offset by Translation.
Such capitalized contract costs were not significant both at the date of adoption and as of September 30, 2018, and the related amortization expense was not significant for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
 Level 3 Significant inputs to the valuation model are unobservable.


item2.txt



item3.txt
Therefore, when the Company borrows under these debt instruments, the Company is exposed to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates.


item4.txt
 Item 6.


part2.txt
 None.


