fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.


item1.txt
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.


item2.txt
This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission") in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC's public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The Company’s segments offer products through its network of independent dealers and distributors.
Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Results of Operations have been restated accordingly.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments' amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1.
Auto segment revenue decreased 12% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
The current quarter marine increase of 9% was primarily driven by sales of the newly acquired Navionics business.
Fitness segment revenues increased 20% from the year-ago quarter, primarily driven by advanced wearables and newly introduced products.
The increase in revenues outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 190 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter.
The aviation segment increase in cost of goods was largely consistent with the increase in sales.
Gross profit dollars in the first quarter of 2018 increased 14% while gross margin increased 190 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2017.
Advertising expense decreased 20% in absolute dollars compared to the year-ago quarter.
The overall decrease in absolute dollars was driven primarily by decreased cooperative advertising associated with customer mix and fitness media, partially offset by an increase in outdoor media.
All segments, except for marine, were relatively flat as a percent of revenues.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.7% against the Euro and 3.7% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $8.8 million and $2.0 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.0% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $12.7 million.
The remaining net currency gain of $2.7 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits Exhibit 31.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).


part2.txt
Item 1.
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd.
Items (a) and (b) are not applicable.
In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares.
On December 31, 2017, the share repurchase authorization expired with no additional shares having been repurchased during the first quarter of 2018.


