fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.


item1.txt
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.


item2.txt
This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission") in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC's public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The Company’s segments offer products through its network of independent dealers and distributors.
Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Results of Operations have been restated accordingly.
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments' amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1.
The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 17%, contributing 80% of total revenue.
Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the second quarter of 2017 at 27% and declined to 20% in the second quarter of 2018.
Auto segment revenue decreased 19% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
Cost of goods sold increased 7% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter.
The outdoor segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from increased promotional activity during the second quarter of 2018.
The total absolute dollar increase was driven primarily by increased cooperative advertising associated with higher sales.
The auto segment increase as a percent of revenues in the second quarter of 2018 was primarily attributable to accelerated amortization of an intangible asset related to a previous acquisition.
The growth in operating income in absolute dollars is primarily attributable to revenue growth while the slight decrease in operating income as a percent of revenues is primarily attributable to the increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 4.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $26.7 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 5.2% against the Euro and 5.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $14.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
The remaining net currency loss of $8.2 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions.
The Company recorded income tax expense of $45.7 million in the 13-week period ended June 30, 2018, compared to income tax expense of $57.3 million in the 13-week period ended July 1, 2017, which included tax expense of $7.3 million associated with the expiration of share-based awards.
The effective tax rate was 19.4% in the second quarter of 2018, compared to 24.5% in the second quarter of 2017.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017.


item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018.
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy.
The hearing before the Court of Appeal is scheduled to take place on January 30, 2019.


