fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.
The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018.


item1.txt
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.


item2.txt
This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors, and also maintains relationships with many original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
Net sales increased 8% for the 13-week period ended March 30, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 12%, contributing 83% of total revenue.
The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables.
Auto segment revenue decreased 10% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
The auto segment gross margin increase was primarily attributable to product mix.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
In the current quarter, the growth in operating income in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue and gross profit dollar growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.9% against the Taiwan Dollar and weakened 2.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $5.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 1.9% against the Euro, resulting in a loss of $7.8 million.
The remaining net currency gain of $1.1 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.
The $0.8 million currency gain recognized in the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended March 31, 2018.
As of March 30, 2019, we had approximately $2.7 billion of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).
Exhibit 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


