The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1, Organization and Basis of Presentation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been made. All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018. The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
Fiscal Year
The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest to June 30 and typically consists of 52 weeks. Fiscal years 2019, which ends on June 28, 2019, and 2018, which ended on June 29, 2018, are each comprised of 52 weeks, with all quarters presented consisting of 13 weeks. Fiscal year 2020, which ends on July 3, 2020, will be comprised of 53 weeks, with the first quarter consisting of 14 weeks and the remaining quarters consisting of 13 weeks each.
On August 29, 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”), to reduce diversity in practice in accounting for the costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts. ASU 2018-15 allows entities to apply the guidance in the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 350-40 to determine which implementation costs are eligible to be capitalized as assets in a cloud computing arrangement that is considered a service contract. The Company adopted this standard on a prospective basis effective June 30, 2018, the beginning of fiscal year 2019, as allowed by the standard. The adoption of this standard and the costs capitalized for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 were not material to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606),” which superseded the requirements in ASC 605 “Revenue Recognition” (Topic 605). Topic 606 outlines a comprehensive five-step revenue recognition model based on the principle that an entity should recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Topic 606 also requires more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The Company adopted Topic 606 effective June 30, 2018, using the modified retrospective method to all contracts that were not completed contracts as of the beginning of the fiscal year. Results for reporting periods beginning with fiscal year 2019 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period information presented on the financial statements or elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is reported under the Company’s historic accounting policies under Topic 605 in effect for that period and is not adjusted to reflect the retrospective effect of the adoption of Topic 606. The cumulative effect of adopting Topic 606 was a post-tax increase to the opening retained earnings of $56 million as of June 30, 2018, which was primarily related to our license and royalty revenue arrangements. These arrangements had no remaining performance obligations but were previously recognized under Topic 605 when they were reported to the Company by its licensees, which was generally one quarter in arrears from the licensees’ sales of the licensed products. Adoption of the standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, as of or for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019, and the Company expects that the impact of the adoption of the new standard will not be material to its results of operations prospectively. See Note 3, Revenues, for additional disclosures related to this standard.
The Company offers a broad range of data storage products that include Client Devices, Data Center Devices and Solutions, and Client Solutions. Client Devices consist of hard disk drives (“HDDs”) and solid state drives (“SSDs”) for computing devices; flash-based embedded storage products; and flash-based memory wafers. Data Center Devices and Solutions consist of high-capacity enterprise HDDs and high-performance enterprise SSDs, data center software and system solutions. Client Solutions consist of HDDs and SSDs embedded into external storage products and removable flash-based products. The Company also generates license and royalty revenues related to its IP patent licenses which are not material.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to the customer. The transaction price to be recognized as revenue is adjusted for variable consideration, such as sales incentives, and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, including taxes imposed by governmental authorities. The Company’s performance obligations are typically not constrained based on the Company’s history with similar transactions and that uncertainties are resolved in a fairly short period of time.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenue is from the sale of tangible products for which the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time, generally upon delivery. The Company’s services revenue mainly includes post contract customer support, warranty as a service and maintenance contracts. The performance obligations for the Company’s services are generally satisfied ratably over the service period based on the nature of the service provided and contract terms. Similarly, revenue from patent licensing arrangements is recognized based on whether the arrangement provides the customer a right to use or right to access the IP. Revenue for a right to use arrangement is recognized at the time the control of the license is transferred to the customer. Revenue for a right to access arrangement is recognized over the contract period using the time lapse method. For the sales-based royalty arrangements, the Company estimates and recognizes revenue in the period in which customers’ licensable sales occur.
The Company’s customer payment terms are typically less than three months from the date control over the product or service is transferred to the customer. The Company uses the practical expedient and does not recognize a significant financing component for payment considerations of less than one year. The financing components of contracts with payment terms were not material.
Contract assets represent the Company’s rights to consideration where performance obligations are completed but the customer payments are not due until another performance obligation is satisfied. The Company did not have any contract assets as of either March 29, 2019 or the date of adoption of Topic 606. 
The Company incurs sales commissions and other direct incremental costs to obtain sales contracts. The Company has applied the practical expedient to recognize the direct incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortization period is expected to be one year or less or the amount is not material, with these costs charged to selling, general and administrative expenses. Prior to the adoption of the new revenue standard, the Company’s policy was to expense all contract acquisition costs as incurred. Other direct incremental costs to obtain contracts that have an expected benefit of greater than one year are amortized over the period of expected cash flows from the related contracts, and the amortization expense is recorded as a reduction to revenue. Total capitalized contract costs and the related amortization as of and for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 were not material.
Contract liabilities relate to customers’ payments in advance of performance under the contract and primarily relate to remaining performance obligations under support and maintenance contracts. As of March 29, 2019 and the date of adoption of Topic 606, contract liabilities were $46 million and $120 million, respectively, and were reflected in Accrued expenses. Changes in the contract liability balance during the nine months ended March 29, 2019 include $93 million of revenue recognized during the period of which the substantial majority relates to the balance that was deferred at June 29, 2018, partially offset by payments received and billings in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
The Company’s top 10 customers accounted for 41% and 45% of its net revenue for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and 44% and 42% of its net revenue for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively. For the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s net revenue.
Note 4.Supplemental Financial Statement Data
From time to time, in connection with factoring agreements, the Company sells trade accounts receivable without recourse to third party purchasers in exchange for cash. During the nine months ended March 29, 2019, the Company sold trade accounts receivable and received cash proceeds of $702 million. The discounts on the trade accounts receivable sold during the period were not material and were recorded within Other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. During the nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company did not sell any trade accounts receivable.
Inventories
The Company tests for impairment, at a minimum, on an annual basis or earlier where certain events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill may more likely than not be impaired. The Company has experienced fluctuations in the market price of its stock, which resulted in the Company’s market capitalization decreasing below book value for eleven trading days near the end of the second quarter and beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2019. The fair value of the Company using a market capitalization approach based on the Company’s share price would include a control premium based on recent transactions that have occurred in the technology industry. This indicative fair value exceeded the Company’s book value; therefore, management did not believe that it was more likely than not that goodwill was impaired as of March 29, 2019.
The Company’s regularly scheduled annual impairment test is performed as of the first day of its fiscal fourth quarter. The Company uses qualitative factors to determine whether goodwill is more likely than not impaired and whether a quantitative test for impairment is considered necessary. If the Company concludes from the qualitative assessment that goodwill is more likely than not impaired, the Company is required to perform a quantitative assessment to determine the amount of impairment. The Company is required to use judgment when applying the goodwill impairment test, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. In addition, the estimates used to determine the fair value of reporting units may change based on results of operations, macroeconomic conditions or other factors. The Company is in the process of completing its annual impairment test. 
If there are significant decreases in the Company’s stock price in the future or other unfavorable factors, the Company may be required to perform a goodwill impairment assessment, which may result in the recognition of a goodwill impairment that could be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Intangible assets
Product warranty liability
Other liabilities
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
During the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, the amounts reclassified out of AOCI related to derivative contracts were not material and substantially all were charged to Cost of revenue in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Note 5.Fair Value Measurements and Investments
Financial Instruments Carried at Fair Value
Level 1.Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3.Inputs that are unobservable for the asset or liability and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
During the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019, the Company had no transfers of financial assets and liabilities between levels. 
The cost basis of the Company’s investments classified as available-for-sale securities, individually and in the aggregate, approximated its fair value as of March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018. 
Equity Securities Without a Readily Determinable Fair Value (“RDFV”)
From time to time, the Company enters into certain strategic investments for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. The equity securities of these privately-held companies do not have a RDFV. Under ASU 2016-01, these equity securities are now measured and recorded using the measurement alternative, which is cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from qualifying observable price changes. In addition, the existing impairment model has been replaced with a new one-step qualitative impairment model. Adjustments resulting from impairments and qualifying observable price changes are recorded in Other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of March 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, these investments were not material.
Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair Value 
The carrying value of the Company’s revolving credit facility approximates its fair value given the revolving nature of the balance and the variable market interest rate. For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments. Each of the financial instruments presented below was categorized as Level 2 for all periods presented, based on the frequency of trading immediately prior to the end of the third quarter of 2019 and the fourth quarter of 2018, respectively. 
As of March 29, 2019, the Company had outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts that were designated as either cash flow hedges or non-designated hedges. Substantially all of the contract maturity dates of these foreign exchange forward contracts do not exceed 12 months. In addition, the Company had outstanding interest rate swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges. The Company did not have any foreign exchange forward contracts with credit-risk-related contingent features. As of March 29, 2019, the amount of existing net losses related to cash flow hedges recorded in AOCI was not material and the majority is expected to be reclassified to earnings over the next twelve months. 
Changes in fair values of the non-designated foreign exchange contracts are recognized in Other income (expense), net and are largely offset by corresponding changes in the fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. For each of the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, total net realized and unrealized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Note 5, Fair Value Measurements and Investments, for additional disclosures related to the fair value of the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts.
Under certain provisions and conditions within agreements with counterparties to the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company has the right of offset associated with the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts and is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other. As of March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018, the effect of rights of offset was not material and the Company did not offset or net the fair value amounts of derivative instruments in its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In November 2018, the Company repaid the previously outstanding borrowings under its revolving credit facility. At March 29, 2019, the Company’s borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility was $2.25 billion.
In April 2019, the Company amended the Credit Agreement for the purposes of providing additional flexibility by adjusting the leverage ratio maintenance covenant levels applicable to the term A loan and revolving facilities thereunder and amending the definition of Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA under the financial maintenance covenants to include an addback for certain depreciation related payments with respect to the Company’s Flash Ventures. As amended, the Company is now required to maintain a maximum ratio of total funded debt to trailing twelve-month Adjusted EBITDA (“Leverage Ratio”) at the end of each quarter of 4.25 to 1.00 through the quarter ending October 2, 2020, 4.00 to 1.00 through the quarter ending July 2, 2021, 3.75 to 1.00 through the quarter ending December 31, 2021, 3.50 to 1.00 through the quarter ending July 1, 2022, and 3.25 to 1.00 thereafter. In addition, the Company is required to maintain a minimum ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to interest expense (“Interest Coverage Ratio”), both calculated on a trailing twelve-month basis, at the end of each quarter of 3.50 to 1.00. 
The Credit Agreement also requires the Company and its subsidiaries to comply with customary covenants that include, among others, limitations on the incurrence of additional debt, liens on property, acquisitions and investments, loans and guarantees, mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions, asset sales, dividends and other payments in respect of the Company’s capital stock, prepayments of certain debt, transactions with affiliates and certain modifications of organizational documents and certain debt agreements. In addition, the indentures governing the Company’s 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes and the 2024 Convertible Notes contain restrictive covenants that limit the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of their assets; create liens; and incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness.
Note 8.Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans
The Company has pension and other post-retirement benefit plans in various countries. The Company’s principal pension plans are in Japan. All pension and other post-retirement benefit plans outside of the Company’s Japanese defined benefit pension plan (the “Japanese Plan”) are immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The expected long-term rate of return on the Japanese Plan assets is 2.5%.
Obligations and Funded Status
Net periodic benefit costs were not material for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019. 
Note 9.Commitments, Contingencies and Related Parties
Flash Ventures
During the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019, the Company made net payments to Flash Ventures of $1.0 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, for purchased flash-based memory wafers and net loans and investments.
The Company makes, or will make, loans to Flash Ventures to fund equipment investments for new process technologies and additional wafer capacity. The Company aggregates its Flash Ventures’ notes receivable into one class of financing receivables due to the similar ownership interest and common structure in each Flash Venture entity. For all reporting periods presented, no loans were past due and no loan impairments were recorded. The Company’s notes receivable from each Flash Ventures entity, denominated in Japanese yen, are secured by equipment owned by that Flash Ventures entity.
The Company assesses financing receivable credit quality through financial and operational reviews of the borrower and creditworthiness, including credit rating agency ratings, of significant investors of the borrower, where material or known. There were no impairments in the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 or March 30, 2018.
As of March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018, the Company had accounts payable balances due to Flash Ventures of $312 million and $259 million, respectively.
The Company’s maximum reasonably estimable loss exposure (excluding lost profits) as a result of its involvement with Flash Ventures, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate at March 29, 2019, is presented below. Investments in Flash Ventures are denominated in Japanese yen, and the maximum estimable loss exposure excludes any cumulative translation adjustment due to revaluation from the Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar.
The Company is committed to purchase its provided three-month forecast of Flash Ventures’ flash-based wafer supply, which generally equals 50% of Flash Ventures’ output. In addition, the Company is obligated to pay for half of Flash Ventures’ fixed costs regardless of the output the Company chooses to purchase. The Company is not able to estimate its total wafer purchase commitment obligation beyond its rolling three-month purchase commitment because the price is determined by reference to the future cost of producing the semiconductor wafers. In addition, the Company is committed to fund 49.9% to 50.0% of each Flash Ventures entity’s capital investments to the extent that each Flash Ventures entity’s operating cash flow is insufficient to fund these investments.
Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities
Flash Ventures sells to and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions a portion of its tools and has entered into equipment lease agreements of which the Company guarantees half or all of the outstanding obligations under each lease agreement. The lease agreements contain customary covenants for Japanese lease facilities. In addition to containing customary events of default related to Flash Ventures that could result in an acceleration of Flash Ventures’ obligations, the lease agreements contain acceleration clauses for certain events of default related to the guarantors, including the Company. 
The following table presents the Company’s portion of the remaining guarantee obligations under the Flash Ventures’ lease facilities in both Japanese yen and U.S. dollar-equivalent, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate as of March 29, 2019.
The Company and TMC have agreed to mutually contribute to, and indemnify each other and Flash Ventures for, environmental remediation costs or liability resulting from Flash Ventures’ manufacturing operations in certain circumstances. The Company has not made any indemnification payments, nor recorded any indemnification receivables, under any such agreements. As of March 29, 2019, no amounts have been accrued in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to these indemnification agreements.
Unis Venture
The Company has a joint venture with Unisplendour Corporation Limited and Unissoft (Wuxi) Group Co. Ltd. (“Unis”), referred to as the “Unis Venture”, to market and sell the Company’s products in China and to develop data storage systems for the Chinese market in the future. The Unis Venture is 49% owned by the Company and 51% owned by Unis. The Company accounts for its investment in the Unis Venture under the equity method of accounting. Revenue on products distributed by the Unis Venture is recognized upon sell through to third-party customers. For the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, the Company recognized less than 1% of its consolidated revenue on products distributed by the Unis Venture. The outstanding accounts receivable due from and investment in the Unis Venture were not material to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of March 29, 2019 or June 29, 2018.
Note 10. Shareholders’ Equity
Stock-based Compensation Expense
Plan Activities
Stock Options
RSUs and PSUs are generally settled in an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock at the time of vesting of the units. 
Stock Repurchase Program
The Company’s Board of Directors previously authorized $5.00 billion for the repurchase of the Company’s common stock. On July 25, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new $5.00 billion share repurchase program that is effective through July 25, 2023, replacing all prior programs. For the three months ended March 29, 2019, the Company did not make any stock repurchases. For the nine months ended March 29, 2019, the Company repurchased 0.8 million shares for a total cost of $61 million under the previous authorization and 7.6 million shares for a total cost of $502 million under the new authorization. Therefore, the Company’s stock repurchases under all stock repurchase authorizations in effect for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 totaled $563 million. The remaining amount available to be repurchased under the Company’s current stock repurchase program as of March 29, 2019 was $4.50 billion. Repurchases under the stock repurchase program may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and may be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan. The Company expects stock repurchases to be funded principally by operating cash flows. 
Dividends to Shareholders
Since the first quarter of 2013, the Company has issued a quarterly cash dividend. During the nine months ended March 29, 2019, the Company declared aggregate cash dividends of $1.50 per share on its outstanding common stock totaling $436 million, including $146 million that was paid on April 15, 2019. 
On May 2, 2019, the Board declared a cash dividend of $0.50 per share to shareholders of record as of June 28, 2019, which will be paid on July 15, 2019. The Company may modify, suspend or cancel its cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time.
Note 11.Income Tax Expense (Benefit)
The 2017 Act, enacted on December 22, 2017, includes a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign earnings.
Additional information regarding the significant provisions of the 2017 Act that impacted the Company is provided below.
Re-measurement of deferred taxes
The Company recorded a provisional income tax benefit of $65 million for the year ended June 29, 2018, which related to the re-measurements of the Company’s deferred tax balances and is based primarily on the rates at which the deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to reverse in the current and future fiscal years, which are generally 29% and 22%, respectively. As of December 28, 2018, the Company had finalized the accounting for the tax effects related to the re-measurements of the Company’s deferred tax balances with no material change for the six months ended December 28, 2018. During the three months ended March 29, 2019, the Company finalized the filing of its U.S. federal income tax return for the year ended June 29, 2018, which resulted in an additional income tax benefit of $5 million for the re-measurement of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities that are expected to reverse at 22%.
Mandatory deemed repatriation tax
In connection with the transition from a global to a territorial U.S. tax system, companies are required to pay a mandatory deemed repatriation tax. For the year ended June 29, 2018, the Company recorded a provisional amount for the mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability of $1.57 billion for foreign subsidiaries. The calculation of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability is based upon post-1986 earnings and profits. In addition, the mandatory deemed repatriation tax is based on the amount of foreign earnings held in cash and other specified assets, which are taxed at 15.5% and 8%, respectively, and is payable over an 8-year period. 
The Company had finalized the accounting for the tax effects of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax during the one-year measurement period permitted by applicable SEC guidance. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company reduced its mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability by $302 million, of which $250 million was for the utilization of recorded deferred tax assets related to existing tax attributes. The utilization of the deferred tax assets was a reclassification that did not have an impact on the Company’s income tax provision for the three months ended September 28, 2018. The remaining $52 million reduction to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax primarily related to the Company’s decision to no longer carry forward its 2018 operating loss and, instead, apply it against the mandatory deemed repatriation tax. The $52 million benefit resulted from utilizing the existing fiscal year 2019 operating losses at a 28% tax rate on the Company’s 2018 tax return as compared to the carryforward tax rate of 21%. The Company’s estimate of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability after these refinements was $1.26 billion.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company also finalized its post-1986 earnings and profits along with the amount of earnings held in cash and other specified assets and increased its mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability by $95 million. The Company’s estimate of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability after these refinements was $1.36 billion, excluding a $135 million increase in its liability for unrecognized tax benefits.
During the three months ended March 29, 2019, the Company finalized the filing of its U.S. federal income tax return for the year ended June 29, 2018, which resulted in a decrease to its mandatory repatriation tax liability by $105 million, of which $41 million related to the utilization of recorded deferred tax assets related to existing tax attributes. The utilization of the deferred tax assets resulted in an income tax benefit of $19 million for the three months ended March 29, 2019 with the remaining amount being a reclassification that did not have an impact on the Company’s income tax provision. The remaining $64 million benefit related to the issuance by the IRS of final regulations on January 15, 2019 with respect to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability. These regulations favorably impacted certain positions previously taken with respect to amounts recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. As of March 29, 2019, the Company’s estimate of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability after these refinements was $1.25 billion, excluding a $146 million liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which increased by $11 million from the second quarter. 
During the one-year measurement period, the Company had evaluated the expected manner of recovery to determine whether or not to continue to assert indefinite reinvestment on a part or all the foreign undistributed earnings. This required the Company to re-evaluate its existing short and long-term capital allocation policies in light of the 2017 Act and calculate the tax cost that is incremental to the deemed repatriation tax of repatriating cash to the U.S. The provisional tax expense recorded by the Company as of June 28, 2018 was based upon an assumption that all of its foreign undistributed earnings are indefinitely reinvested.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company had finalized the accounting for the tax effects of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on its indefinite reinvestment assertion. As of the second quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company removed its permanent reinvestment assertion and intends to repatriate all of its foreign undistributed earnings. During the nine months ended March 29, 2019, the Company recorded a foreign income tax expense of $279 million related to foreign withholding taxes partially offset by foreign tax credits of $95 million. In addition, a state income tax expense of $54 million was recorded, partially offset by a decrease to the Company’s valuation allowance of $45 million. Amounts related to federal taxes other than the repatriation tax were not material. The Company’s decision to change its indefinite reinvestment assertion is based on interpretative guidance issued by the IRS to date related to the ordering and the taxation of a repatriation of the Company’s foreign undistributed earnings.
Deferred taxes on foreign earnings
As a result of the shift to a territorial system for U.S. taxation, the new minimum tax on certain foreign earnings (“global intangible low-tax income”) provision of the 2017 Act imposes a tax on foreign earnings and profits in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign subsidiaries. This provision is effective for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, which for the Company is the fiscal year that began on June 30, 2018 (fiscal year 2019). During the one-year measurement period permitted by applicable SEC guidance, the Company evaluated its accounting policy regarding whether to make an election to account for the effects of this provision either as a component of future income tax expense in the period in which the tax arises or as a component of deferred taxes on the related investments. Accordingly, no deferred tax assets and liabilities were established for timing differences between foreign U.S. GAAP income and U.S. taxable income that would be expected to reverse under the new minimum tax in future years for the year ended June 28, 2018. 
Subsequent to June 28, 2018, the Company made the election to account for the effects of the global intangible low-tax income provision as a component of future income tax expense in the period in which the tax arises. There was no change in the Company’s accounting as a result of this election.
The primary driver of the difference between the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 21% is the discrete effect of the finalization of the accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 Act. For the three months ended March 29, 2019, these discrete effects consist of income tax benefits of $71 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax. For the nine months ended March 29, 2019, these discrete effects consist of $107 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax and $152 million related to the Company’s decision to change its indefinite reinvestment assertion. For both periods, the remaining difference is attributable primarily to an increase in the estimated effective tax rate due to changes in the relative mix of earnings by jurisdiction, partially offset by credits and tax holidays. The net windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards were not material for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019. 
The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% included discrete effects consisting of an income tax benefit of $211 million from deductible make-whole premiums and the write-off of unamortized issuance costs from the Company’s debt financing transactions. The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% were related to the net charge of $1.66 billion for the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax, offset in part by an income tax benefit related to the re-measurement of deferred taxes as required by the 2017 Act and deductible make-whole premiums and the write-off of unamortized issuance costs from the Company’s debt financing transactions. The primary drivers for the remaining difference between the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% were tax credits and tax holidays in Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand that expired or expire at various dates during fiscal years 2018 through 2030 and net windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards of $46 million and $73 million for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
During the nine months ended March 29, 2019, the Company recorded an increase of $157 million in its liability for unrecognized tax benefits (excluding accrued interest and penalties). As of March 29, 2019, the Company’s liability for unrecognized tax benefits (excluding accrued interest and penalties) was approximately $708 million. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as of March 29, 2019 was $120 million.
The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) previously completed its field examination of the Company’s federal income tax returns for fiscal years 2008 through 2012 and proposed certain adjustments. As previously disclosed, the Company received Revenue Agent Reports from the IRS for fiscal years 2008 through 2009, proposing adjustments relating to transfer pricing with the Company’s foreign subsidiaries and intercompany payable balances. The Company disagrees with the proposed adjustments and in September 2015, filed a protest with the IRS Appeals Office and received the IRS rebuttal in July 2016. The Company and the IRS Appeals Office did not reach a settlement on the disputed matters. On June 28, 2018, the IRS issued a statutory notice of deficiency with respect to the disputed matters for fiscal years 2008 through 2009, seeking to increase the Company’s U.S. taxable income by an amount that would result in additional federal tax through fiscal year 2009 totaling approximately $516 million, subject to interest. The Company filed a petition with the U.S. Tax Court in September 2018. On December 10, 2018, the IRS issued a statutory notice of deficiency with respect to fiscal years 2010 through 2012, seeking to increase the Company’s U.S. taxable income by an amount that would result in additional federal tax for fiscal years 2010 through 2012 totaling approximately $549 million, subject to interest. Approximately $535 million of the total additional federal tax for fiscal years 2010 through 2012 relates to proposed adjustments for transfer pricing with the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, intercompany payable balances and the utilization of certain tax attributes. The Company filed a petition with the U.S. Tax Court in March 2019. The Company believes that its tax positions are properly supported and will vigorously contest the position taken by the IRS. 
The Company computes basic income (loss) per common share using net income (loss) and the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted income (loss) per common share is computed using net income (loss) and the weighted average number of common shares and potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive common shares include dilutive outstanding employee stock options, RSUs and PSUs, and rights to purchase shares of common stock under the Company’s ESPP. For the three months ended March 30, 2018, the Company excluded 2 million common shares subject to outstanding equity awards from the calculation of diluted shares because their impact would have been anti-dilutive based on the Company’s average stock price during the period. For the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 and the nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company reported a net loss, and all outstanding equity awards have been excluded from such periods because including them would be anti-dilutive. See Note 10, Shareholders’ Equity. 
Closure of Foreign Manufacturing Facilities
In July 2018, the Company announced the closing of its HDD manufacturing facility in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, in order to reduce its manufacturing costs and consolidate HDD operations into Thailand. The Company currently expects the closure to be substantially completed by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 and to result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $110 million. These charges are expected to consist of approximately $70 million in employee termination benefits and $40 million in asset-related, contract termination and other charges, of which $56 million were recognized in the year ended June 29, 2018. During the nine months ended March 29, 2019, the Company recognized an additional $7 million in employee termination benefits and $9 million in asset-related, contract termination and other charges. 
Business Realignment 
Unless otherwise stated below, for each of the matters described below, the Company has either recorded an accrual for losses that are probable and reasonably estimable or has determined that, while a loss is reasonably possible (including potential losses in excess of the amounts accrued by the Company), a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss or range of possible losses with respect to the claim or in excess of amounts already accrued by the Company cannot be made. The ability to predict the ultimate outcome of such matters involves judgments, estimates and inherent uncertainties. The actual outcome of such matters could differ materially from management’s estimates.
Solely for purposes of this note, “WD” refers to Western Digital Corporation or one or more of its subsidiaries excluding HGST prior to the closing of the Company’s acquisition of HGST on March 8, 2012 (the “HGST Closing Date”) and SanDisk prior to the Company’s acquisition of SanDisk on May 12, 2016 (the “SanDisk Closing Date”); “HGST” refers to Hitachi Global Storage Technologies Holdings Pte. Ltd. or one or more of its subsidiaries as of the HGST Closing Date; “SanDisk” refers to SanDisk Corporation or one or more of its subsidiaries as of the SanDisk Closing Date; and “the Company” refers to Western Digital Corporation and all of its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis including HGST and SanDisk.
In May 2016, Lambeth Magnetic Structures, LLC (“Lambeth”) filed a complaint with the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania against WD and certain of its subsidiaries alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,128,988. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief. The ’988 patent, entitled “Magnetic Material Structures, Devices and Methods,” allegedly relates to a magnetic material structure for hard disk drive devices. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this matter.
For disclosures regarding statutory notices of deficiency issued by the IRS on June 28, 2018 and December 10, 2018, and petitions filed by the Company with the U.S. Tax Court in September 2018 and March 2019, see Note 11, Income Tax Expense. 
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to other legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. Although the ultimate aggregate amount of probable monetary liability or financial impact with respect to these other matters is subject to many uncertainties, management believes that any monetary liability or financial impact to the Company from these other matters, individually and in the aggregate, would not be material to the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, any monetary liability and financial impact to the Company from these other matters could differ materially from the Company’s expectations.
Note 15.Separate Financial Information of Guarantor Subsidiaries
The Company’s senior unsecured notes due 2026 (the “2026 Senior Unsecured Notes”) are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis, subject to certain customary guarantor release conditions, by certain 100% owned material domestic subsidiaries of the Company (or the “Guarantor Subsidiaries”). The guarantee by a Guarantor Subsidiary will be released in the event of (i) the release of a Guarantor Subsidiary from its guarantee of indebtedness under the credit agreement or other indebtedness that would have required the Guarantor Subsidiary to guarantee the 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes, (ii) the sale, issuance or other disposition of capital stock of a Guarantor Subsidiary such that it is no longer a restricted subsidiary under the indenture governing the 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes, (iii) the sale of all or substantially all of a Guarantor Subsidiary’s assets, (iv) the Company’s exercise of its defeasance options under the indenture governing the 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes, (v) the dissolution or liquidation of a Guarantor Subsidiary or (vi) the sale of all the equity interest in a Guarantor Subsidiary. The Company’s other domestic subsidiaries and its foreign subsidiaries (collectively, the “Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries”) do not guarantee the 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes. The following condensed consolidating financial information reflects the summarized financial information of Western Digital Corporation (“Parent”), the Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis, and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis.
In April 2019, the Company completed a sale and leaseback of its manufacturing facility in Fremont, California. The Company received proceeds from the sale of $115 million and expects to recognize an approximate loss of $25 million. The property is being leased back over a term of 15 years at an annual lease rate of $7 million for the first year and increasing by 3% per year thereafter. The lease includes four 5-year renewal options for the ability to extend up to 20 years.
For a description of our legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 1, Note 14, Legal Proceedings, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated by reference in response to this item.
•Our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. 
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.  
We are dependent on our ventures with TMC to develop and manufacture flash-based memory products for our flash-based memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results are dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures. We partner with TMC on the development of flash-based technology, including the next technology transitions of flash-based memory, as well as other non-volatile memory technology in support of Flash Ventures. Flash Ventures is subject to various risks that could harm the value of our investments, our revenue and costs, our future rate of spending, our technology plans and our future growth opportunities.
In July 2018, TMC announced that it was starting construction of a new wafer fabrication facility for the manufacture of 3D NAND in Kitakami, Iwate, Japan. Although we intend to enter into agreements with TMC in due course to participate in the new Kitakami facility, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so. If we are unable to extend our partnership with TMC to the Kitakami facility on favorable terms, our future supply of captive flash-based memory could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our long-term business and financial results. 
In addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features. We expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors may be able to gain a technological or cost structure advantage over us, which may allow their products to be less costly or enable them to provide better performance or to include additional features when compared to our products. Further, some of our competitors may utilize certain pricing strategies, including offering products at prices at or below cost, that we may be unable to competitively match. In addition, the Chinese government and various agencies, state-owned or affiliated enterprises and investment funds are making significant investments to promote China’s domestic semiconductor industry consistent with the government’s stated national policy objectives. If we are unable to effectively compete with any manufacturers located in China or non-Chinese competitors benefitting from alliances with Chinese companies in the markets where we compete, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. 
There are some revolutionary technologies that, if implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, could put us at a competitive disadvantage, including shingled magnetic recording, energy-assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media and advanced signal processing.
Many companies, including some of our competitors, have also developed or are attempting to develop alternative non-volatile technologies, including non-NAND technologies such as magnetoresistive random-access memory (MRAM), resistive random-access memory (ReRAM) and phase change memory (PCM), and NAND-based vertical or stacked 3D memories based on charge trap, floating gate and other cell architectures.
•difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp;
•implementing at an acceptable cost product features expected by our customers;
•our ability to successfully transition future core, processor and controller development to the RISC-V architecture;
•effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand;
•our ability to respond to customer requests for new products and software associated with our products;
•our ability to incorporate open source software elements into our products and operate in an open source environment;
•quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction and problems with compatibility between our products and those of our customers that were not anticipated in the design of those products;
•our ability to increase our software development capability; and
•the effectiveness of our go-to-market capability in selling new products.
•our interests could diverge from our partners’ interests or we may not agree with co-venturers on ongoing activities, technology transitions or on the amount, timing or nature of further investments in the relationship;
•our control over the operations of our business ventures is limited;
•due to financial constraints, our co-venturers may be unable to meet their commitments to us or may pose credit risks for our transactions with them;
•a bankruptcy event involving a co-venturer could result in the early termination or adverse modification of the business venture or agreements governing the business venture;
•we may experience difficulties or delays in collecting amounts due to us from our co-venturers;
•the terms of our arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable; and
•changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our co-venturers.
We depend on an external supply base for technologies, software (including firmware), preamps, controller, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing. We also depend on suppliers for a portion of our wafer testing, chip assembly, product assembly and product testing, and on service suppliers for providing technical support for our products. In addition, we use logistics partners to manage our just-in-time hubs, distribution centers and freight from suppliers to our factories and from our factories to our customers throughout the world. Many of the components and much of the equipment we acquire must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole-source suppliers. We are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated into our products, technology and equipment. 
From time to time, our suppliers have experienced difficulty meeting our requirements. If we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers or qualify and engage additional suppliers, we may not be able to meet demand for our products. Delays or cost increases experienced by our suppliers in developing or sourcing materials and components for use in our products or incompatibility or quality issues relating to our products, could also harm our financial results as well as business relationships with our customers. We do not have long-term contracts with some of our existing suppliers, nor do we always have guaranteed manufacturing capacity with our suppliers and, therefore, we cannot guarantee that they will devote sufficient resources or capacity to manufacturing our products. Any significant problems that occur at our suppliers, or their failure to perform at the level we expect, could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, either of which would harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers, we may not be able to engage alternative suppliers who are able or willing to provide goods or services in sufficient quantities or at a cost acceptable to us. 
In addition, our supply base has experienced industry consolidation. Our suppliers may be acquired by our competitors, consolidate, decide to exit the industry, or redirect their investments and increase costs to us, each of which may have an adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, some of our suppliers have experienced a decline in financial performance. Where we rely on a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier, the risk of supplier loss due to industry consolidation or a decline in financial performance is enhanced. Some of our suppliers may also be competitors in other areas of our business, which could lead to difficulties in price negotiations or meeting our supply requirements. Any disruption in our supply chain could reduce our revenue and adversely impact our financial results. 
See the risk factors entitled “We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results” and “Our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations” for additional risks related to our supply of flash memory and our strategic relationships. 
Price volatility, shortages of critical materials or components, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the storage industry, or contractual commitments we enter into with suppliers to reduce the risk of component shortages, could increase our costs and may negatively impact our operating results.  
To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs. In addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. Some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components and may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory, which could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our operating results.
The loss of our key executive management, staff and skilled employees, the inability to hire and integrate new employees or decisions to realign our business could negatively impact our business prospects.  
Our operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are concentrated in large, purpose-built facilities, subjecting us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted.  
We may incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the scope of, the coverage of our insurance policies. There can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to maintain existing insurance coverage or that premiums will not increase substantially. Due to market availability, pricing or other reasons, we may elect not to purchase insurance coverage or to purchase only limited coverage. We maintain limited insurance coverage and, in some cases, no coverage at all, for natural disasters and environmental damages, as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost. We depend upon TMC to obtain and maintain sufficient property, business interruption and other insurance for Flash Ventures. If TMC fails to do so, we could suffer significant unreimbursable losses, and such failure could also cause Flash Ventures to breach various financing covenants.
Manufacturing, marketing and selling our products globally subjects us to numerous risks.  
•obtaining requisite governmental permits and approvals, compliance with foreign laws and regulations, changes in foreign laws and regulations;
•the need to comply with regulations on international business, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010, the anti-bribery laws of other countries and rules regarding conflict minerals;
•currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions;
•political and economic instability, civil unrest and natural disasters;
•limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines;
•labor challenges, including difficulties finding and retaining talent or responding to labor disputes or disruptions;
•trade restrictions, such as export controls, export bans, embargos, sanctions and license and certification requirements (including on encryption technology), new or increased tariffs and fees and complex customs regulations;
•copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in European and other countries;
•exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations;
•increasing labor and overhead costs; 
•weaker protection of IP rights;
•loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities.
As a result of these risks, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Some of these risks, such as trade restrictions, higher tariffs and fees, import and export restrictions or loss of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities, could increase as a result of changes to trade agreements, policies, rules and regulations. For example, beginning in early 2018, the U.S. commenced certain trade actions, including proposed new and increased tariffs on an evolving list of imported materials and products. Countries have responded to these actions in various ways, including proposed tariff increases on products imported from the U.S. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, there may be changes to international trade agreements or whether tariffs, export controls, or other restrictions may be changed or imposed on our products, our customers or our supply chain. Such tariffs, policy or regulatory changes, international trade agreements or trade restrictions have in the past adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our ability to sell to certain customers or could increase our cost of doing business, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.
We seek to be an industry-leading developer, manufacturer and provider of innovative storage solutions, balancing our core hard drive and flash memory business with growing investments in newer areas that we believe will provide us with higher growth opportunities. Acquisitions of, investment opportunities in, or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business are a key part of our overall business strategy. In order to pursue this part of our growth strategy successfully, we must continue to identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. We may not be able to continue to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. We are also subject to certain covenants in our debt agreements that place limits on our ability to complete acquisitions and investments. Even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. Failing to successfully integrate or realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies of an acquisition may result in not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In addition, failing to achieve the financial model projections for an acquisition or changes in technology development and related roadmaps following an acquisition may result in the incurrence of impairment charges and other expenses, both of which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Acquisitions and investments may also result in the issuance of equity securities that may be dilutive to our shareholders and the issuance of additional indebtedness that would put additional pressure on liquidity. Furthermore, we may agree to provide continuing service obligations or enter into other agreements in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals of our corporate transactions, and failure to satisfy these additional obligations could result in our failing to obtain regulatory approvals or the imposition of additional obligations on us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, new legislation or additional regulations may affect or impair our ability to invest with or in certain other countries or require us to obtain regulatory approvals to do so, including investments in joint ventures, minority investments and outbound technology transfers to certain countries
•inconsistent demand from customers whose sales are correlated to large projects and expansions which can be sporadic;
•internal customer development of storage solutions;
•developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management;
•emergence of new technologies; 
•volatility in demand due to differing patterns of technology adoption and innovation; or
We regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers, and the product qualification process may be lengthy for some customers. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. Even if our products meet customer specifications, our sales to these customers are dependent upon the customers choosing our products over those of our competitors and purchasing our products in sufficient volume, our ability to supply our products in sufficient quantity and in a timely manner and, with respect to OEM partners, the OEMs’ ability to create, market and successfully sell products containing our solutions. 
As of March 29, 2019, our total indebtedness was $10.76 billion in aggregate principal, and we had $2.25 billion of additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. 
•imposing financial and other restrictive covenants on our operations, including limiting our ability to (i) declare or pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock; (ii) purchase assets, make investments, complete acquisitions, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our assets to, another person; (iii) dispose of assets; (iv) incur liens; and (v) enter into transactions with affiliates;
Our ability to meet the debt service obligations and to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements will depend on our cash flows and future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. Our bank debt also contains a variable interest rate component based on our corporate credit ratings, which could result in increased interest rates and debt service obligations if our ratings were to decline. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or should we fail to comply with our financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, it could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. We may be unable to cure, or obtain a waiver of, an event of default or otherwise amend our debt agreements to prevent an event of default thereunder on terms acceptable to us or at all. In that event, the debt holders could accelerate the related debt, which may result in the cross-acceleration or cross-default of other debt, leases or other obligations. If we are required to repay our indebtedness before the applicable due dates, we may not have sufficient funds available and we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue common stock or other equity securities, which we may be unable to do on terms acceptable to us, in amounts sufficient to meet our needs or at all. Our inability to service our debt obligations or refinance our debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured indebtedness, the holder of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Refinancing our indebtedness may also require us to expense previous debt issuance costs or to incur new debt issuance costs.
In addition to our credit ratings impacting the interest rate on our current debt, our ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. There can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future.
Our credit agreement uses LIBOR as a reference rate for our term loans and revolving credit facility, such that the interest rate applicable to such loans may, at our option, be calculated based on LIBOR. In July 2017, the U. K.’s Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. The U.S. Federal Reserve has begun publishing a Secured Overnight Funding Rate (“SOFR”), which is intended to replace U.S. dollar LIBOR. Plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced. At this time, we cannot predict how markets will respond to these proposed alternative rates or the effect of any changes to LIBOR or the discontinuation of LIBOR. If LIBOR is no longer available or if our lenders have increased costs due to changes in LIBOR, we may experience potential increases in interest rates on our variable rate debt, which could adversely impact our interest expense, results of operations and cash flows.
We are subject to risks associated with loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities.  
If our technology infrastructure, systems or products are compromised, damaged or interrupted by cyber attacks, data security breaches, other security problems, security vulnerabilities or design defects, or sustain system failures, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.  
We experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on our technology infrastructure and systems and, as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained in the past, and may in the future obtain, access to our computer systems and networks, including cloud-based platforms. The technology infrastructure and systems of our suppliers, vendors, service providers, cloud solution providers and partners have in the past experienced and may in the future experience such attacks. Cyber attacks can include computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, worms, and other malicious software programs or other attacks, covert introduction of malware to computers and networks, impersonation of authorized users, and efforts to discover and exploit any design flaws, bugs, security vulnerabilities or security weaknesses, as well as intentional or unintentional acts by employees or other insiders with access privileges, intentional acts of vandalism or fraud by third parties and sabotage. In some instances, efforts to correct vulnerabilities or prevent attacks may reduce the performance of our computer systems and networks, which could negatively impact our business. We believe cyber attack attempts are increasing in number and that cyber attackers are developing increasingly sophisticated systems and means to not only attack systems, but also to evade detection or to obscure their activities. Our products are also targets for cyber attacks, including those products utilized in cloud-based environments as well as our cloud service offerings. While some of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third-party content or user-generated data stored on our products, these products could still be hacked or the encryption schemes could be compromised, breached, or circumvented by motivated and sophisticated attackers. We have agreed with certain customers and strategic partners, including TMC, to undertake certain commitments to promote information security, and we may be liable to TMC or such other parties if we fail to meet our cyber security commitments.
In addition, our technology infrastructure and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures. Further, our products contain sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that may contain security problems, security vulnerabilities, or defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could interfere with the intended operation of our products.
A significant portion of our sales is also made through retailers. Our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple retail market channels. Particularly in the retail market, adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could damage our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. If customers no longer maintain a preference for our product brands or if our retailers are not successful in selling our products, our operating results may be adversely affected.
During the three months ended March 29, 2019, 41% of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, often resulting in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, if our sales to a key customer are prohibited by law, regulation or other government action, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results and financial condition would likely be harmed. 
We warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. We test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. However, our testing may fail to reveal defects in our products that may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. In addition, our products may be used in a manner that is not intended or anticipated by us, resulting in potential liability. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement. As part of a product recall, we may be required or choose to replace the defective product. Moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. If an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. In addition, product defects, product recalls or epidemic failures may cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, lost revenue, indemnification for a recall of our customers’ products, warranty claims, litigation or loss of market share with our customers, including our OEM and original design manufacturers (“ODM”) customers. Our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.
Certain of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third party content and user-generated data stored on our products. To the extent our products are hacked or the encryption schemes are compromised or breached, this could harm our business by hurting our reputation, requiring us to employ additional resources to fix the errors or defects and expose us to litigation and indemnification claims.
In addition, third-party components or applications that we incorporate or use in our products may contain defects in design or manufacturing that could unexpectedly result in epidemic failures, security vulnerabilities or performance issues and subject us to liability.
We are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the U.S. and other countries relating to the collection, use, sharing, and security of third-party data including personal data, and our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others and cause us to incur penalties, significant legal liability, or loss of customers, loss of revenue, and reputational harm.  
We are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the U.S. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of third-party data including data that relates to or identifies an individual person. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. Our possession and use of third-party data, including personal data and employee data in conducting our business, subjects us to legal and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees or other parties with which we have commercial relations of a data security breach and to respond to regulatory inquiries and to enforcement proceedings. Global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Compliance requirements and even our inadvertent failure to comply with applicable laws may cause us to incur substantial costs, subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others, and cause us to incur penalties or other significant legal liability, or lead us to change our business practices.
The nature of our industry and its reliance on IP and other proprietary information subjects us and our suppliers, customers and partners to the risk of significant litigation.  
Our reliance on IP and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors.  
The success of our branded products depends in part on the positive image that consumers have of our brands. We believe the popularity of our brands makes them a target of counterfeiting or imitation, with third parties attempting to pass off counterfeit products as our products. Any occurrence of counterfeiting, imitation or confusion with our brands could adversely affect our reputation and impair the value of our brands, which in turn could negatively impact sales of our branded products, our share and our gross margin, as well as increase our administrative costs related to brand protection and counterfeit detection and prosecution.
The costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, data privacy, anti-corruption and tax regulations, customers’ standards of corporate citizenship, and industry and coalition standards, such as those established by the Responsible Business Alliance (“RBA”), could cause an increase in our operating costs.  
We are subject to, and may become subject to additional, state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, data privacy, anti-corruption and tax practices. These laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. We will need to ensure that we and our suppliers and partners timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. Legislation has been, and may in the future be, enacted in locations where we manufacture or sell our products. In addition, climate change and financial reform legislation is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal, international or other regulatory responses in the near future. If we or our suppliers or partners fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, or legal liability and reputational damage, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
In connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry and coalition environmental initiatives, such as those established by the RBA, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause our financial condition and operating results to suffer.
Violation of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and certain other practices by our suppliers, customers or partners could harm our business.  
We expect our suppliers, customers and partners to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required standards of conduct. While our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers, customers, partners or their labor or environmental practices. The violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of them, or divergence of their business practices from those generally accepted as ethical, could harm our business by interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components, damaging our reputation, forcing us to find alternate component sources, reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott), or exposing us to potential liability for our suppliers’, customers’ or partners’ wrongdoings.
Our vertical integration of some of our products makes us dependent on our ability to timely and cost-effectively develop products with leading technology and overall quality, increasing capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks for our business.  
We develop flash-based memory as well as other non-volatile memory technology through our partnership with TMC; we are also vertically integrated in a substantial portion of the recording heads and magnetic media used in the hard drive products we produce. Consequently, for some of our products, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of technologies developed by other manufacturers. Since we may not have access to alternative technologies that we do not develop internally, we may have to pay royalties in order to access those technologies.
Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results.  
Sudden disruptions to the availability of air transportation, or ocean or land freight lanes, could have an impact on our operations.  
We generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air, ocean or land freight. The sudden unavailability or disruption of air transportation, cargo operations or ocean, rail or truck freight lanes caused by, among other things, labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently receive shipments from our suppliers or deliver our products.
Flash Ventures’ equipment lease agreements contain covenants and other cancellation events, and cancellation of the leases would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.  
Flash Ventures sells to and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions (“lessors”) a portion of its equipment and Flash Ventures has entered into equipment lease agreements, most of which we and TMC each guarantee half of the total outstanding obligations and some of which we guarantee in full for our share of the Flash Ventures investment. As of March 29, 2019, the portion of outstanding Flash Ventures’ lease obligations covered by our guarantees totaled approximately $1.42 billion, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate at March 29, 2019. The equipment lease agreements contain covenants and cancellation events that are customary for Japanese lease facilities and that relate to Flash Ventures and each of the guarantors. Cancellation events relating to the guarantors include, among other things, an assignment of all or a substantial part of a guarantor’s business, a bankruptcy event involving a guarantor and acceleration of other monetary debts of a guarantor above a specified threshold.
The breach of a covenant or the occurrence of another cancellation event could result in an acceleration of the Flash Ventures’ lease obligations. If a cancellation event were to occur, Flash Ventures would be required to negotiate a resolution with the lessors, as well as other parties to the lease transactions, to avoid cancellation and acceleration of the lease obligations. Such resolution could include, among other things, supplementary security to be supplied by us, as guarantor, increased interest rates or waiver fees. If a cancellation event occurs and we fail to reach a resolution, we may be required to pay all or a portion of the outstanding lease obligations covered by our guarantees, which would significantly reduce our cash position and may force us to seek additional financing, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all.
Any decisions to reduce or discontinue paying cash dividends to our shareholders or to reduce or discontinue repurchases of shares of our common stock pursuant to our previously announced stock repurchase program could cause the market price for our common stock to decline.  
We may modify, suspend or cancel our cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time. In addition, we may reduce or discontinue repurchases of shares of our common stock as we deem appropriate and as market conditions allow. Any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or the repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of shares of our common stock are reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying cash dividends or repurchasing shares of our common stock at historical levels could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results.  
Because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, cost of revenue, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated. Additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in U.S. dollars from non-U.S. based vendors. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. In addition, our purchases of flash-based memory from Flash Ventures and our investment in Flash Ventures are denominated in Japanese yen. If the Japanese yen appreciates against the U.S. dollar, our cost of purchasing flash-based memory wafers and the cost to us of future capital funding of Flash Ventures would increase, which could negatively impact our operating results. If any of these events occur, they would have a negative impact on our operating results.
We attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. However, these contracts do not cover our full exposure, and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. Thus, our decisions and hedging strategy with respect to currency risks may not be successful and harm our operating results. Further, the ability to enter into foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions is based upon our available credit from such institutions and compliance with covenants and other restrictions. Operating losses, third party downgrades of our credit rating or instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to effectively manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk. Hedging also exposes us to the credit risk of our counterparty financial institutions.
Increases in our customers’ credit risk could result in credit losses and term extensions under existing contracts with customers with credit losses could result in an increase in our operating costs.  
Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as ODMs, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our OEM customers. Because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Additionally, as we attempt to expand our OEM and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. Any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, especially in situations where there are term extensions under existing contracts with such customers, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results.
•weakness in demand for one or more product categories;
•the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers, loss of major customers;
•our product mix;
•reductions in the ASPs of our products and lower margins;
•excess output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lower ASPs, financial charges or impairments, or insufficient output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lost revenue opportunities;
•inability to successfully transition to 3D NAND or other technology developments, or other failure to reduce product costs to keep pace with reduction in ASPs;
•manufacturing delays or interruptions;
•delays in design wins or customer qualifications, acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products;
•success of our partnerships and joint ventures, in particular the volume, timing and cost of wafer production at Flash Ventures, and our success in managing the relationships with our strategic partners;
•inability to realize the potential benefits of our acquisitions and the success of our integration efforts;
•ability to penetrate new markets for our storage solutions;
•limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers;
•increase in costs due to warranty claims;
•higher costs as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations; and
•price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors;
•inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value);
•testing of goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment;
•accruals for product returns;
•accruals for litigation and other contingencies
•liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and
•provisional estimates related to tax reform.
In addition, changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
•perceptions about our strategic relationships and joint ventures, access to supply of flash-based memory, new technologies and technology transitions;
•new products introduced by us or our competitors;
•periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation;
•proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments or anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us or our competitors;
•conditions and trends in the hard drive, solid-state storage, flash memory, computer, mobile, data and content management, storage and communication industries;
•contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods;
•failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates or changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts relating specifically to us or the storage industry in general;
•announcements relating to dividends and share repurchases; and
Given the international footprint of our business, we have both domestic and international cash balances and investments. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, security types, and maturities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, political, sovereign and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. A material part of our investment portfolio consists of investment grade corporate securities, bank deposits, asset backed securities and U.S. government and agency securities. If global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that our investments may experience an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. A failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) limits could also have an adverse impact on our financial position.
In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to repay our indebtedness, fund acquisitions, pay dividends, or repurchase shares of our common stock, we may choose or be required to increase our borrowings, if available, or to repatriate funds to the U.S. at an additional tax cost. We must comply with regulations regarding the conversion and distribution of funds earned in the local currencies of various countries. If we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in these countries.
