Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters. As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” refer to Western Digital Corporation and its subsidiaries.
•In February and March 2018, we completed the redemption of all of our outstanding 7.375% senior secured notes due 2023 in the aggregate principal amount of $1.875 billion (the “2023 Notes”) and the tender offer and redemption and settlement of all of our outstanding 10.500% senior unsecured notes due 2024 in the aggregate principal amount of $3.350 billion (the “2024 Notes” and collectively with the 2023 Notes, the “Existing Notes”).
For additional information regarding our debt facilities, see Part I, Item 1, Note 6, Debt, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
The increase in net revenue for the three months ended March 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, is primarily due to increased flash memory and hard disk drives (“HDD”) product revenue. Client Devices revenue was relatively flat for the three months ended March 30, 2018 as a result of growth in mobile and embedded flash memory products offset by lower client compute devices. Our revenue for Data Center Devices and Solutions for the three months ended March 30, 2018 increased 25.0% year over year, primarily due to an increase in capacity enterprise HDD driven by cloud storage demand. Client Solutions revenue for the three months ended March 30, 2018 increased 3.9% year over year, primarily due to growth in HDD retail products.
The increase in net revenue for the nine months ended March 30, 2018, compared to the same period in the prior year, is primarily due to increased flash products offset by a decline in client compute HDD devices. Client Devices revenue for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 increased 7.4% year over year, primarily driven by growth in mobile and embedded flash products, partially offset by lower sales of client compute HDD products. Our revenue for Data Center Devices and Solutions for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 increased 9.3% year over year, driven primarily by a significant increase in sales from our capacity enterprise HDD, partially offset by lower sales from our performance enterprise HDDs. Client Solutions revenue for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 increased 12.3% year over year, reflecting growth in both HDD and flash products.
Our top 10 customers accounted for 44% and 42% of our net revenue for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively, and 41% of our net revenue for each of the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017. For the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue. 
The increase in gross profit for the three months ended March 30, 2018 reflects the increase in revenue discussed above and improvement in our gross margin. The improvement in gross margin for the three months ended March 30, 2018 was primarily due to a favorable demand environment for flash-based products and a higher mix of flash-based product revenue, growth in higher-margin capacity enterprise HDD, and improvements in our production costs from technology transitions. 
The increase in gross profit for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 reflects the increase in revenue discussed above and improvement in our gross margin. The improvement in our gross margin for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 was primarily due to a favorable demand environment for flash-based products and a higher mix of flash-based product revenue, as well as improvements in our production costs from technology transitions.
Gross profit was negatively impacted by amortization expense on acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation, charges related to the implementation of cost-saving initiatives and other charges, which aggregated $247 million, or 4.9%, of revenue, for the three months ended March 30, 2018, and $303 million, or 6.5%, of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Gross profit was negatively impacted by amortization expense on acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation, charges related to the implementation of cost-saving initiatives and other charges, which aggregated $819 million, or 5.3%, of revenue, for the nine months ended March 30, 2018, and $826 million, or 5.8%, of revenue, for the nine months ended March 31, 2017.
Employee termination and other charges for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 primarily related to further actions associated with the integration and business realignment of substantial portions of our business. For additional information regarding employee termination, asset impairment and other charges, see Part I, Item 1, Note 12, Employee Termination, Asset Impairment and Other Charges, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
The loss from total interest and other income (expense), net for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 increased $470 million from the same period in the prior year, primarily due to the loss on extinguishment of debt of $896 million recognized in the current year, compared to $274 million of debt extinguishment charges in the prior year, partially offset by lower interest expense of $84 million resulting from reductions in the interest rates and principal amount of debt, higher interest income of $29 million related to increased rates of return on investments and lower foreign exchange losses.
Under the 2017 Act, the U.S. federal corporate tax rate is reduced from 35% to 21% and is effective January 1, 2018, resulting in the use of an estimated annual effective tax rate of approximately 28% for our U.S. federal corporate tax rate for fiscal year 2018. The U.S. federal corporate tax rate was reduced from 35% to the blended tax rate of 28% for fiscal year 2018. For fiscal year 2019 and beyond, we will utilize the enacted U.S. federal corporate tax rate of 21%.
The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% include discrete effects consisting of an income tax benefit of $211 million from deductible make-whole premiums and the write-off of unamortized issuance costs from debt financing transactions. The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% are related to the net charge of $1.66 billion for the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax, offset in part by an income tax benefit related to the re-measurement of deferred taxes as required by the 2017 Act and deductible make-whole premiums and the write-off of unamortized issuance costs from debt financing transactions. The primary drivers for the remaining difference between the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% are the current year generation of tax credits, and tax holidays in Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand that expire at various dates during fiscal years 2018 through 2030 and windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards. The windfall tax benefits are a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09, which requires us to now recognize $46 million and $73 million of windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards as a component of our income tax expense for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively. The windfall tax benefits for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017 were recorded within shareholders’ equity.
The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 31, 2017 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 35% include discrete effects consisting of income tax expense from the integration of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) of $91 million and a valuation allowance on acquired tax attributes of $111 million, partially offset by income tax benefit from deductible debt issuance costs, debt discounts and prepayment fees from the debt extinguishment of $98 million. The primary drivers for the remaining difference between the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 35% are these discrete items, the current year generation of tax credits and tax holidays in Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand that expire at various dates during fiscal years 2018 through 2030.
We believe our cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations as well as our available credit facilities will be sufficient to meet our working capital, debt, stock repurchases, dividend and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. Our ability to sustain our working capital position is subject to a number of risks that we discuss in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
During 2018, we expect cash used for purchases of property, plant and equipment and net activity in notes receivable and equity investments relating to Flash Ventures to be approximately $1.50 billion to $1.90 billion. The total expected cash to be used could vary depending on the timing and completion of various capital projects and the availability, timing and terms of related financing.
For the nine months ended March 30, 2018, DSO decreased by 2 days over the prior year, primarily reflecting the timing of shipments and customer receipts. DIO increased by 13 days over the prior year, primarily reflecting ongoing hard drive manufacturing transformation activities. The increase in DPO primarily reflects the increased production volume and timing of vendor payments. 
Our cash equivalents are primarily invested in money market funds that invest in U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government agency securities as well as bank certificates of deposit. In addition, we invest directly in U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. and International Government agency securities, certificates of deposit, asset-backed securities and corporate and municipal notes and bonds.
Net cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 primarily consisted of $14.58 billion in debt repayments, $443 million to pay dividends on our common stock and $155 million of share repurchases, partially offset by net proceeds of $11.83 billion from debt issuances and draws under our Revolving Facility. Net cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended March 31, 2017 consisted of $12.18 billion in debt repayments and $428 million to pay dividends on our common stock, partially offset by $7.91 billion of net proceeds from debt, $61 million of proceeds from call options, and a net $102 million provided by employee stock plans. 
Other than the commitments related to Flash Ventures, facility lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business and certain indemnification provisions (see “Contractual Obligations and Commitments” below), we do not have any other material off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any other obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any special-purpose entities. For additional information regarding our off-balance sheet arrangements, see Part I, Item 1, Note 8, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Parties, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
See Part I, Item 1, Note 6, Debt, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for information regarding our indebtedness, including information about new borrowings and repayments, increased availability under our Revolving Facility and the principal repayment terms, interest rates, covenants and other key terms of our outstanding indebtedness.
We have entered into interest rate swap agreements to moderate our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates underlying our variable rate debt. For a description of our current interest rate swaps, see Part I, Item 3, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Part I, Item 1, Note 5, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
Flash Ventures sells and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions a portion of its tools and has entered into equipment lease agreements of which we guarantee half or all of the outstanding obligations under each lease agreement. The lease agreements contain customary covenants for Japanese lease facilities. In addition to containing customary events of default related to Flash Ventures that could result in an acceleration of Flash Ventures’ obligations, the lease agreements contain acceleration clauses for certain events of default related to the guarantors, including us. As of March 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under these Japanese lease facilities. See Part I, Item 1, Note 8, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Parties, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for information regarding Flash Ventures.
We purchase foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. For a description of our current foreign exchange contract commitments, see Part I, Item 3, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Part I, Item 1, Note 5, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements.
The 2017 Act allows for the provisional mandatory deemed repatriation tax of $1.66 billion to be payable over an 8-year period without interest. The payments are due with 8% of the tax to be paid in each of the first five years, 15% in the 6th year, 20% in the 7th year, and 25% in the 8th year. For additional information regarding our provisional estimate of the total tax liability for the mandatory repatriation tax, see Part I, Item 1, Note 10, Income Tax Expense (Benefit), of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
As of March 30, 2018, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits (excluding accrued interest and penalties) was approximately $505 million. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as of March 30, 2018 was approximately $105 million. Of these amounts, approximately $477 million could result in potential cash payments. We are not able to provide a reasonable estimate of the timing of future tax payments related to these obligations. For additional information regarding our total tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits, see Part I, Item 1, Note 10, Income Tax Expense (Benefit), of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
Our Board of Directors has authorized $5.00 billion for the repurchase of our common stock. The stock repurchase program is effective until February 3, 2020. We made repurchases aggregating $2.88 billion prior to fiscal 2018. We repurchased 1.78 million shares for a total cost of $155 million during the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018. The remaining amount available to be purchased under our stock repurchase program as of March 30, 2018 was $1.97 billion. 
Since the first quarter of 2013, we have issued a quarterly cash dividend. On January 27, 2018, we declared a cash dividend of $0.50 per share of our common stock to our shareholders of record as of March 30, 2018. The cash dividend of $150 million was paid on April 16, 2018. 
During the nine months ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017, we declared aggregate cash dividends of $1.50 per share of our common stock totaling $446 million and $432 million, respectively.
On May 2, 2018, we declared a cash dividend of $0.50 per share of our common stock to our shareholders of record as of June 29, 2018, which will be paid on July 16, 2018. We may modify, suspend, or cancel our cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” (“ASC Topic 606”), which amends the guidance in former ASC Topic 605, “Revenue Recognition”, to provide a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers. ASC Topic 606 requires an entity to recognize revenue in a manner that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in amounts that reflect the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard also requires entities to enhance disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The standard is effective beginning the first quarter of fiscal 2019, with early adoption permitted. The standard may be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented (“full retrospective method”), or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (“modified retrospective method”). Based on our plan, we will to adopt the new standard beginning with the first quarter of 2019 using the modified retrospective method.
•For sales-based royalties, we will need to estimate and recognize revenue in the period the royalty-bearing sales occur as opposed to the existing treatment of recognizing revenue in the period the royalty report is received. This change will result in the acceleration of revenue recognition by one fiscal quarter as well as fluctuations between the estimated and actual reported sales-based royalties which we do not expect to be material.
•For other revenue streams such as multi-element transactions, software and IP licenses, these transactions are immaterial and the related changes to revenue recognition are not expected to be material.
•For assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract, we do not expect to have material capitalized fees for contracts where the amortization period is greater than one year.
•Our revenue disclosures will expand and may require judgment in certain areas.
As we are completing our assessment, we are also identifying and preparing to implement changes to our processes, internal controls and systems configurations from the implementation of the new revenue standard. We do not currently expect any significant changes to our other accounting policies from the adoption of the new revenue standard. Our implementation efforts are progressing as planned.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
