Item 1.Financial Statements (unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note 1.Organization and Basis of Presentation
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been made. All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017. The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
Fiscal Year
The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest to June 30 and typically consists of 52 weeks. Fiscal years 2018, which ends on June 29, 2018, and 2017, which ended on June 30, 2017, are both comprised of 52 weeks, with all quarters presented consisting of 13 weeks.
Use of Estimates
Note 2.Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015‑11, “Inventory (Topic 330) - Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory” (“ASU 2015‑11”), which dictates that an entity should measure inventory within the scope of this update at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of 2018. The Company’s adoption of ASU 2015‑11 did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note 3.Supplemental Financial Statement Data
Inventories
Property, plant and equipment, net
Goodwill
On September 15, 2017, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of Tegile Systems, Inc., a provider of flash and persistent-memory storage solutions for enterprise data center applications. On August 25, 2017, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of Upthere, Inc., a cloud services company. These acquisitions are primarily intended to help meet the evolving needs of customers, while driving long-term growth for the Company's existing data center and client solution products over the long term. 
The aggregate purchase price of acquisitions during the six months ended December 29, 2017 was $99 million in cash, with net assets acquired primarily consisting of developed technology and other intangibles assets, of which $61 million was allocated to goodwill. Goodwill is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from diversifying product offerings to its Data Center Devices and Solutions and Client Solutions end markets as well as the acquired workforce. Goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes because the acquisitions were structured as asset acquisitions but accounted for as business combinations. Concurrent with these acquisitions, the Company received $36 million in proceeds on previously outstanding notes receivable due from these acquired entities. 
During the six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company incurred $6 million of transaction expenses related to these acquisitions, which are primarily included within Selling, General and Administrative expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Revenues and earnings related to these acquisitions was not material.
Intangible assets
Product warranty liability
The long-term portion of the warranty accrual classified in Other liabilities was $110 million and $125 million as of December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Other liabilities
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
Note 4.Fair Value Measurements and Investments
Financial Instruments Carried at Fair Value
Level 1.Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3.Inputs that are unobservable for the asset or liability and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
During the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company had no transfers of financial assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2.
Available-for-Sale Securities
The Company determined available-for-sale securities had no material other-than-temporary impairments in the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 or December 30, 2016. 
Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair Value 
For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments. Each of the financial instruments presented below was categorized as Level 2 for all periods presented, based on the frequency of trading immediately prior to the end of the second quarter of 2018 and the fourth quarter of 2017, respectively. 
Cost Method Investments
From time to time, the Company enters into certain strategic investments for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. The Company reports these investments under the cost method of accounting as it does not have a significant influence over the operations of these investees. These investments consist of debt and equity securities of privately-held companies which do not have a readily determinable fair value and are carried at historical cost. The Company assesses these securities for indications of other-than-temporary impairments. There were no impairment charges during the three months ended December 29, 2017 and $6 million of impairment charges for the six months ended December 29, 2017, which were included in Other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, these investments aggregated $57 million and $91 million, respectively, and are reported under Other non-current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Note 5.Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
As of December 29, 2017, the Company had outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts which were designated as either cash flow hedges or non-designated hedges. The contract maturity dates of these foreign exchange forward contracts do not exceed 12 months. In addition, the Company had outstanding interest rate swaps which were designated as cash flow hedges. The Company determined the ineffectiveness associated with its cash flow hedges to be immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016.
As of December 29, 2017, the amount of existing net gains related to cash flow hedges recorded in AOCI that are expected to be reclassified into earnings over the next twelve months was $8 million. In addition, as of December 29, 2017, the Company did not have any foreign exchange forward contracts with credit-risk-related contingent features.
A change in the fair value of non-designated hedges is recognized in earnings in the period incurred and is reported as a component of Other income (expense), net. The changes in fair value on these contracts were immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016.
Derivative Instruments
Under certain provisions and conditions within agreements with counterparties to the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company has the right of offset associated with the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts and is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other. As of December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, the effect of rights of offset was not material and the Company did not offset or net the fair value amounts of derivative instruments in its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Effect of Derivative Contracts on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
The total net realized transaction and foreign exchange forward contract currency gains and losses were not material to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016.
On November 29, 2017, the Company entered into an amendment to the credit agreement entered into on April 29, 2016 (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”), to increase the size of its existing $1.0 billion revolving credit facility by $500 million to $1.5 billion. The term of the revolving credit facility remained unchanged and will mature on April 29, 2021. As of December 29, 2017, there were no borrowings under the revolving credit facility.
On November 17, 2017, the Company settled in full the principal amounts of the Euro Term Loan B-2, plus accrued interest, using cash on hand. On November 8, 2017, the Company borrowed $2.96 billion under a new U.S. dollar-denominated term loan (“U.S. Term Loan B-3”) under its Credit Agreement and used the proceeds of this new loan to prepay in full the U.S. Term Loan B-2 previously outstanding under the Credit Agreement. The U.S. Term Loan B-3 has an interest rate equal to, at the Company’s option, either an adjusted LIBOR rate, subject to a 0.00% floor, plus 2.00% or a base rate plus 1.00% (3.57% as of December 29, 2017). Principal payments on U.S. Term Loan B-3 of 0.25% are due quarterly and began on December 29, 2017 with the balance due on April 29, 2023. The U.S. Term Loan B-3 issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the loan and as of December 29, 2017, issuance costs of $3 million remain unamortized. In connection with the settlements of the U.S. Term Loan B-2 and Euro Term Loan B-2, the Company recognized an aggregate loss on debt extinguishment of $2 million consisting of unamortized issuance costs.
The Credit Agreement requires the Company to comply with certain financial covenants, such as a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. As of December 29, 2017, the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants. In addition, the documents governing substantially all of the Company’s outstanding debt, including the Credit Agreement, require the Company to comply with customary covenants that limit or restrict the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to incur liens and indebtedness; make certain restricted payments, acquisitions, investments, loans and guarantees; and enter into certain transactions with affiliates, mergers and consolidations. 
Note 7.Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans
The Company has pension and other post-retirement benefit plans in various countries. The Company’s principal pension plans are in Japan. All pension and other post-retirement benefit plans outside of the Company’s Japanese defined benefit pension plan (the “Japanese Plan”) are immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The expected long-term rate of return on the Japanese Plan assets is 2.5%.
Obligations and Funded Status
Note 8.Commitments, Contingencies and Related Parties
Flash Ventures
In connection with a settlement agreement with Toshiba, in December 2017, the Company entered into a facility agreement (“Y6 Facility Agreement”) with TMC related to the construction and operation of a new 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility in Yokkaichi, Japan, referred to as “Fab 6”, which is primarily intended to provide cleanroom space to continue the transition of existing 2D NAND manufacturing capacity to BiCS 3D NAND manufacturing capacity. Under the Y6 Facility Agreement, the Company is committed to 50% of Fab 6’s start-up costs, as well as 50% of the joint ventures’ portion of an upcoming investment in manufacturing equipment for Fab 6. See also Note 13, Legal Proceedings.
During the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company made net payments to Flash Ventures of $1.2 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, for purchased flash-based memory wafers and net loans. 
The Company makes, or will make, loans to Flash Ventures to fund equipment investments for new process technologies and additional wafer capacity. The Company aggregates its Flash Ventures’ notes receivable into one class of financing receivables due to the similar ownership interest and common structure in each Flash Venture entity. For all reporting periods presented, no loans were past due and no loan impairments were recorded. The Company’s notes receivable from each Flash Ventures entity, denominated in Japanese yen, are secured by equipment owned by that Flash Ventures entity.
The Company assesses financing receivable credit quality through financial and operational reviews of the borrower and creditworthiness, including credit rating agency ratings, of significant investors of the borrower, where material or known. Impairments, when required for credit worthiness, are recorded in Other income (expense), net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. There were no such impairments in the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016.
As of December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, the Company had accounts payable balances due to Flash Ventures of $250 million and $206 million, respectively.
The Company’s maximum reasonably estimable loss exposure (excluding lost profits) as a result of its involvement with Flash Ventures, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate at December 29, 2017, is presented below. Investments in Flash Ventures are denominated in Japanese yen and the maximum possible loss exposure excludes any cumulative translation adjustment due to revaluation from the Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar.
The Company is committed to purchase its provided three-month forecast of Flash Ventures’ NAND wafer supply, which generally equals 50% of Flash Ventures’ output. The Company is not able to estimate its total wafer purchase commitment obligation beyond its rolling three-month purchase commitment because the price is determined by reference to the future cost of producing the semiconductor wafers. In addition, the Company is committed to fund 49.9% to 50.0% of each Flash Ventures entity’s investments to the extent that each Flash Ventures entity’s operating cash flow is insufficient to fund these investments.
Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities
Flash Ventures sells and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions a portion of its tools and has entered into equipment lease agreements of which the Company guarantees half of the total outstanding obligations. The lease agreements contain customary covenants for Japanese lease facilities. In addition to containing customary events of default related to Flash Ventures that could result in an acceleration of Flash Ventures’ obligations, the lease agreements contain acceleration clauses for certain events of default related to the guarantors, including the Company. 
The following table presents the Company’s portion of the remaining guarantee obligations under the Flash Ventures’ lease facilities in both Japanese yen and U.S. dollar-equivalent, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate as of December 29, 2017.
The Company and TMC have agreed to mutually contribute to, and indemnify each other and Flash Ventures for, environmental remediation costs or liability resulting from Flash Ventures’ manufacturing operations in certain circumstances. The Company has not made any indemnification payments, nor recorded any indemnification receivables, under any such agreements. As of December 29, 2017, no amounts have been accrued in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to these indemnification agreements.
Note 9. Shareholders’ Equity
Stock-based Compensation Expense
Compensation cost related to unvested stock options, restricted stock unit awards (“RSU”), performance-based restricted stock unit awards (“PSU”) and the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) will generally be amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining average service period. The following table presents the unamortized compensation cost and weighted average service period of all unvested outstanding awards as of December 29, 2017.
Plan Activities
Stock Options
RSUs and PSUs are generally settled in an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock at the time of vesting of the units. 
Stock Repurchase Program
The Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) has authorized $5.00 billion for the repurchase of the Company’s common stock. The stock repurchase program is effective until February 3, 2020. The Company did not repurchase any shares of common stock during the three months ended December 29, 2017. The remaining amount available to be purchased under the Company’s stock repurchase program as of December 29, 2017 was $2.10 billion.
Dividends to Shareholders
On September 13, 2012, the Company announced that the Board had authorized the adoption of a quarterly cash dividend policy. Under the cash dividend policy, holders of the Company’s common stock receive dividends when and as declared by the Board.
On November 1, 2017, the Board declared a cash dividend of $0.50 per share of the Company’s common stock. The cash dividend aggregating $149 million was paid on January 16, 2018 to the Company’s shareholders of record as of December 29, 2017. On January 27, 2018, the Board declared a cash dividend of $0.50 per share to shareholders of record as of March 30, 2018, which will be paid on April 16, 2018. The Company may modify, suspend or cancel its cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time.
Note 10.Income Tax Expense
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“2017 Act”) was enacted on December 22, 2017. The 2017 Act includes a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and creates new taxes on certain foreign earnings.
Additional information regarding the significant provisions of the 2017 Act that are expected to impact the Company is provided below.
Re-measurement of deferred taxes
The provisional income tax benefit of $88 million recorded for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 related to the re-measurement of the Company’s deferred tax balance is based on the rates at which the deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to reverse in the current and future fiscal years, which are generally 29% and 22%, respectively. However, the Company is still analyzing certain aspects of the 2017 Act and refining the calculations, which could potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts. The Company is also analyzing the impact of the 2017 Act to the existing valuation allowance assessments from both a federal and state tax perspective, which could potentially affect the realizability of the existing deferred tax assets. In calculating the provisional amount, the Company utilized an estimate of the expected reversals of certain tax assets and liabilities, which will be revised in future quarters during the one-year measurement period as additional information becomes available.
Mandatory deemed repatriation tax
In connection with the transition from a global to a territorial U.S. tax system, companies are required to pay a mandatory deemed repatriation tax. The tax is to be computed using the Company’s total foreign post-1986 earnings and profits that were previously deferred from U.S. income taxes. This tax is based on the amount of foreign earnings held in cash and other specified assets which are taxed at 15.5% and 8%, respectively, and is payable over an 8-year period. For the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company recorded a provisional amount for the mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability of $1.66 billion for foreign subsidiaries and $132 million of this amount is classified as a current tax liability. The calculation of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability is provisional and based upon preliminary estimates of post-1986 earnings and profits. In addition, the mandatory deemed repatriation tax is based on a provisional amount of foreign earnings held in cash and other specified assets, which the Company expects will require additional clarifying guidance from U.S. Treasury. As such, the provisional amount may change during the one-year measurement period when the Company finalizes the calculation of post-1986 foreign earnings and profits and the amount of foreign earnings held in cash or other specified assets.
Although the mandatory deemed repatriation tax has removed U.S. federal taxes on distributions to the U.S., the Company continues to evaluate the expected manner of recovery to determine whether or not to continue to assert indefinite reinvestment on a part or all the foreign undistributed earnings. This requires the Company to re-evaluate the existing short and long-term capital allocation policies in light of the 2017 Act and calculate the tax cost that is incremental to the deemed repatriation tax, (e.g. foreign withholding, state income taxes, and additional U.S. tax on currency transaction gains or losses) of repatriating cash to the U.S. While the provisional tax expense for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 is based upon an assumption that foreign undistributed earnings are indefinitely reinvested, the Company’s plan may change upon the completion of long-term capital allocation plans in light of the 2017 Act and completion of the calculation of the incremental tax effects on the repatriation of foreign undistributed earnings. In the event the Company determines not to continue to assert the permanent reinvestment of part or all of foreign undistributed earnings, such a determination could result in the accrual and payment of additional foreign, state and local taxes.
Deferred taxes on foreign earnings
As a result of the shift to a territorial system for U.S. taxation, the new minimum tax on certain foreign earnings (“global intangible low-tax income”) provision of the 2017 Act imposes a tax on foreign earnings and profits in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign subsidiaries. This provision is effective for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 which for the Company would be the fiscal year beginning on June 30, 2018 (fiscal year 2019). The Company has not progressed sufficiently in the analysis of this provision to make an election either to account for the effects of this provision either as a component of future income tax expense in the period the tax arises or as a component of deferred taxes on the related investments. Accordingly, no deferred tax assets and liabilities have been established for timing differences between foreign U.S. GAAP income and foreign earnings and profits which would be expected to reverse under the new minimum tax in future years. Additionally, the Company has not yet completed the calculation of post-1986 foreign earnings and profits for the mandatory repatriation tax, which would be the starting point for the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities in order to record any provisional amounts. 
Under the 2017 Act, the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% is effective January 1, 2018 requiring companies to use a blended rate for its fiscal 2018 tax year by applying a pro-rated percentage of the number of days before and after the January 1, 2018 effective date. This results in the use of an estimated annual effective rate of approximately 28% for the Company’s U.S. federal corporate tax rate for fiscal year 2018. The reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to the blended tax rate of 28% for fiscal year 2018 is estimated to have reduced the Company’s income tax expense by $7 million for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017. For fiscal year 2019 and beyond, the Company will utilize the enacted U.S. federal corporate tax rate of 21%. 
The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% are related to the net charge of $1.66 billion for the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax, offset in part by an income tax benefit related to the re-measurement of deferred taxes as required by the 2017 Act. Excluding these items, the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 would be approximately 4%. The primary drivers for the remaining difference between the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% are the current year generation of tax credits, and tax holidays in Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand that expire at various dates during fiscal years 2018 through 2030 and windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards. The windfall tax benefits are a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09, which requires the Company to now recognize $5 million and $27 million of windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards as a component of its income tax expense for the three and six months ended December 29, 2017, respectively. The windfall tax benefits for the three and six months ended December 30, 2016 were recorded within stockholders’ equity.
Income tax expense for the six months ended December 30, 2016 was attributable to discrete effects consisting of income tax expense from the integration of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) of $90 million and a valuation allowance on acquired tax attributes of $109 million, partially offset by income tax benefit from deductible debt issuance costs, debt discounts and prepayment fees from the debt extinguishment of $96 million. The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the six months ended December 30, 2016 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 35% are these discrete items, the current year generation of tax credits and tax holidays in Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand that expire at various dates during fiscal years 2018 through 2030.
During the six months ended December 29, 2017, the Company recorded a net increase of $7 million in its liability for unrecognized tax benefits (excluding accrued interest and penalties). As of December 29, 2017, the Company’s liability for unrecognized tax benefits (excluding accrued interest and penalties) was approximately $529 million. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as of December 29, 2017 was approximately $94 million.
The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) previously completed its field examination of the Company’s federal income tax returns for fiscal years 2006 through 2009 and proposed certain adjustments. The Company received Revenue Agent Reports from the IRS that seek to increase the Company’s U.S. taxable income which would result in additional federal tax expense totaling $795 million, subject to interest. The issues in dispute relate primarily to transfer pricing with the Company’s foreign subsidiaries and intercompany payable balances. The Company disagrees with the proposed adjustments and in September 2015, filed a protest with the IRS Appeals Office and received the IRS rebuttal in July 2016. Meetings with the IRS Appeals Office began in March 2017. The Company believes that its tax positions are properly supported and will vigorously contest the position taken by the IRS. In September 2015, the IRS commenced an examination of the Company’s fiscal years 2010 through 2012.
Note 11.Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share 
The Company computes basic income (loss) per common share using net income (loss) and the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted income (loss) per common share is computed using net income (loss) and the weighted average number of common shares and potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive common shares include dilutive outstanding employee stock options, RSUs and PSUs, and rights to purchase shares of common stock under the Company’s ESPP. 
Note 12.Employee Termination, Asset Impairment and Other Charges 
In 2016, the Company initiated a set of actions relating to the restructuring plan associated with the integration of substantial portions of its HGST and WD subsidiaries (“Restructuring Plan 2016”). Restructuring Plan 2016 consists of asset and footprint reduction, product road map consolidation and organization rationalization. In addition to the amounts recognized under Restructuring Plan 2016 as presented above, the Company recognized $8 million and $30 million of accelerated depreciation on facility assets in cost of revenue during the six months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, respectively.
Business Realignment 
Unless otherwise stated below, for each of the matters described below, the Company has either recorded an accrual for losses that are probable and reasonably estimable or has determined that, while a loss is reasonably possible (including potential losses in excess of the amounts accrued by the Company), a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss or range of possible losses with respect to the claim or in excess of amounts already accrued by the Company cannot be made. The ability to predict the ultimate outcome of such matters involves judgments, estimates and inherent uncertainties. The actual outcome of such matters could differ materially from management’s estimates.
Solely for purposes of this note, “WD” refers to Western Digital Corporation or one or more of its subsidiaries excluding HGST prior to the closing of the Company’s acquisition of HGST on March 8, 2012 (the “HGST Closing Date”) and SanDisk prior to the closing of the Company’s acquisition of SanDisk on May 12, 2016 (the “SanDisk Closing Date”); “HGST” refers to Hitachi Global Storage Technologies Holdings Pte. Ltd. or one or more of its subsidiaries as of the HGST Closing Date; “SanDisk” refers to SanDisk Corporation or one or more of its subsidiaries as of the SanDisk Closing Date; and “the Company” refers to Western Digital Corporation and all of its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis including HGST and SanDisk.
In June 2008, Convolve, Inc. (“Convolve”) filed a complaint with the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against WD, HGST, and two other companies alleging infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,314,473 and 4,916,635. The complaint sought unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief. In October 2008, Convolve amended its complaint to allege infringement of only the ’473 patent. The ’473 patent allegedly relates to interface technology to select between certain modes of a disk drive’s operations relating to speed and noise. In July 2011, a verdict was rendered against WD and HGST in an amount that is not material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows, for which the Company previously recorded an accrual. In March 2015, WD and HGST filed notices of appeal with the U.S. District Court for the Federal Circuit (“Federal Circuit”). In April 2015, Convolve filed a motion for reconsideration of the final judgment. In June 2017, the District Court vacated the judgment against WD and HGST with respect to infringement, willfulness, and damages and denied Convolve’s motion for reconsideration. In December 2017, WD and HGST filed an amended notice of appeal with the Federal Circuit with respect to validity. In January 2018, WD, HGST and Convolve entered into a settlement agreement resolving the litigation and agreeing to seek dismissal of all claims and actions between the parties. 
In May 2016, Lambeth Magnetic Structures, LLC (“Lambeth”) filed a complaint with the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania against WD and certain of its subsidiaries alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,128,988. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief. The ’988 patent, entitled “Magnetic Material Structures, Devices and Methods,” allegedly relates to a magnetic material structure for hard disk drive devices. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this matter.
Antitrust
In July 2010, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (“Samsung”) filed an action against Panasonic Corporation (“Panasonic”) and SD-3C LLC (“SD-3C”) with the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that the defendants violated federal antitrust laws and California antitrust and unfair competition laws relating to the licensing practices and operations of SD-3C. The complaint seeks damages, restitution, injunctive and declaratory relief, and fees and costs. SanDisk is not a defendant in this case, but it established SD-3C along with Panasonic and Toshiba Corporation (“Toshiba”), and the complaint includes various factual allegations concerning SanDisk. As a member of SD-3C, SanDisk could be responsible for a portion of any monetary award. Other requested relief, if granted, could result in a loss of revenue to SanDisk. In November 2015, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss. In September 2016, the District Court stayed the litigation pending the outcome of an ongoing arbitration between Samsung and Toshiba. The District Court denied the motion to dismiss without prejudice to refiling after the stay is lifted. The arbitration between Samsung and Toshiba was concluded in May 2017. In October 2017, the District Court issued an order directing Samsung and Toshiba to seek clarification from the arbitration panel regarding certain aspects of its decision.
In March 2011, a complaint was filed against SanDisk, SD-3C, Panasonic, Panasonic Corporation of North America, Toshiba and Toshiba America Electronic Components, Inc. with the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The lawsuit purports to be on behalf of a nationwide class of indirect purchasers of SD cards. The complaint asserts claims under federal antitrust laws and California antitrust and unfair competition laws, as well as common law claims. The complaint seeks damages, restitution, injunctive relief, and fees and costs. The plaintiffs allege that the defendants conspired to artificially inflate the royalty costs associated with manufacturing SD cards, which in turn allegedly caused the plaintiffs to pay higher prices for SD cards. The allegations are similar to and incorporate allegations in Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. v. Panasonic Corp., et al., described above. In November 2015, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the plaintiffs’ federal law claims. In October 2016, the District Court granted the defendants’ motion with leave to amend and the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the plaintiffs’ remaining claims. Discovery is presently stayed until after completion of the pleading stage. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this matter.
Securities
Toshiba Matters
In December 2017, the Company entered into a Confidential Settlement and Mutual Release Agreement (the “Toshiba Settlement Agreement”) with Toshiba and TMC. Under the Toshiba Settlement Agreement, the parties agreed to withdraw and seek dismissal of the litigation and arbitration proceedings discussed below. Further information about the Toshiba Settlement Agreement is set forth below under “Settlement Agreement.”
Proceedings
In July 2017, the Company received a petition for provisional disposition that was filed by Toshiba and TMC in the Tokyo District Court. The petition alleged that the Company engaged in acts of defamation and wrongful acquisition and use of trade secrets in violation of the Unfair Competition Prevention Act. The petition requested injunctive relief.
In August 2017, the Company received a complaint filed by Toshiba and TMC in the Tokyo District Court seeking a permanent injunction and damages of 120 billion Japanese yen. The complaint was based on the same allegations as the petition for provisional disposition.
In May 2017, several of the Company’s SanDisk subsidiaries (the “SanDisk Subsidiaries”) filed a request for arbitration with the ICC International Court of Arbitration seeking an order requiring Toshiba to unwind the transfer of its interests in Flash Ventures to its affiliate, TMC, and injunctive relief preventing Toshiba from further breaching the Flash Ventures agreements in violation of the SanDisk Subsidiaries’ consent rights. In June 2017, the SanDisk Subsidiaries sought preliminary injunctive relief in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of San Francisco in aid of that arbitration. Among other things, SanDisk asked the Superior Court to prevent Toshiba from transferring its interests in Flash Ventures until the SanDisk Subsidiaries could seek injunctive relief in the arbitration to prevent a transfer.
In July 2017, SanDisk LLC filed a request for arbitration with the ICC International Court of Arbitration against Toshiba seeking damages and injunctive relief for, among other things, blocking certain employees of SanDisk’s affiliates from accessing shared databases regarding Flash Ventures and from refusing to ship certain engineering wafers and samples to SanDisk’s affiliates in breach of the agreements governing the joint venture (the “Access Restrictions”). SanDisk LLC also sought injunctive relief, a preliminary injunction and a temporary restraining order, in aid of that arbitration from the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of San Francisco. In July 2017, SanDisk LLC amended its request for arbitration to, among other things, add TMC as a defendant.
In September 2017, the SanDisk Subsidiaries filed a request for arbitration with the ICC International Court of Arbitration against Toshiba in relation to Toshiba's announced decision to invest unilaterally in manufacturing equipment for the Fab 6 clean room at the joint venture operations in Yokkaichi, Japan. The SanDisk Subsidiaries sought, among other things, a permanent injunction preventing Toshiba from making unilateral investments in capacity expansions and conversions for 3‑dimensional (“3D”) NAND technology, which we refer to as BiCS 3D NAND-flash memory, including investments in manufacturing equipment for Fab 6, without first complying with its obligations with respect to giving the SanDisk Subsidiaries the opportunity to make comparable investments.
Settlement Agreement
In December 2017, the Company, the SanDisk Subsidiaries, Toshiba and TMC entered into the Toshiba Settlement Agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to withdraw and seek dismissal of the proceedings above and mutually release each other from all claims relating to, among other things, (i) the transfer of Toshiba’s equity interests in Flash Ventures to TMC, (ii) the Access Restrictions, (iii) TMC’s decision to invest unilaterally in Phase I of Fab 6 and (iv) the sale of TMC to K.K. Pangea (“Pangea”), which will be owned, as of the closing of the sale, by certain members of a consortium of investors led by Bain Capital (as defined below). In addition, the Company agreed to consent to the transfer of Toshiba’s interests in Flash Ventures to TMC, the assignment of all agreements relating to Flash Ventures by Toshiba to TMC and the sale of TMC to Pangea. Toshiba and TMC have also agreed to end the Access Restrictions. For a period of three years following the closing of the sale of TMC to Pangea, the Company’s consent shall be required for any issuance or transfer of equity securities, voting rights or control in TMC by TMC, Toshiba, Bain Capital or their respective affiliates to certain restricted parties, subject to certain limited exceptions. Pursuant to the Toshiba Settlement Agreement, the Company and the SanDisk Subsidiaries also entered into certain other agreements with TMC related to the operation of Flash Ventures, including an agreement regarding the construction and operation of Fab 6 and the extension of the term of Flash Alliance.
In December 2017, the Company and the SanDisk Subsidiaries also entered into a Confidential Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release with Bain Capital Private Equity, L.P., BCPE Pangea Cayman, L.P., BCPE Pangea Cayman2, Ltd., Bain Capital Fund XII, L.P., Bain Capital Asia Fund III, L.P. and Pangea (together, “Bain Capital”) on terms substantially similar to the terms of the Toshiba Settlement Agreement, subject to certain transfer restrictions on Bain Capital.
Copyright
In December 2011, the German Central Organization for Private Copying Rights (Zentralstelle für private Überspielungsrechte) (“ZPÜ”), an organization consisting of several copyright collecting societies, instituted arbitration proceedings against WD’s German subsidiary (“WD Germany”) before the Copyright Arbitration Board (“CAB”) claiming copyright levies for multimedia hard drives, external hard drives and network hard drives sold or introduced into commerce in Germany by WD Germany from January 2008 through December 2010. In February 2013, WD Germany filed a declaratory relief action against ZPÜ in the Higher Regional Court of Munich (the “Higher Court”), seeking an order from the Higher Court to determine the copyright levy issue. In May 2013, ZPÜ filed a counter-claim against WD Germany with the Higher Court, seeking copyright levies for multimedia hard drives, external hard drives and network hard drives sold or introduced into commerce from January 2008 through December 2010 based on tariffs published by ZPÜ in November 2011. In January 2015, the Higher Court ruled in favor of ZPÜ. In its ruling, the Higher Court declared that WD Germany must pay certain levies on certain products which it sold in Germany between January 2008 and December 2010. The judgment specified levy amounts on certain products sold from January 2008 through December 2010 and directed WD Germany to disclose applicable sales data to ZPÜ. The exact amount of the judgment had not been determined. ZPÜ and WD Germany filed appeals with the German Federal Court of Justice in February 2015. In March 2017, the German Federal Court of Justice rendered a judgment affirming ZPÜ’s claim concerning the disclosure of WD Germany’s sales data regarding HDDs sold between January 2008 and December 2010. The German Federal Court of Justice also set aside the Higher Court’s decision on the levy amounts and referred the case back to the Higher Court for further fact finding and decision on the levy amounts. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this matter.
In December 2014, ZPÜ submitted a pleading to the CAB seeking copyright levies for multimedia hard drives, external hard drives and network hard drives sold or introduced into commerce in Germany by WD Germany between January 2012 and December 2013. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this matter.
The Company has recorded an accrual for German copyright levies in an amount that is not material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows; however, it is reasonably possible that the Company could incur losses totaling up to $177 million, inclusive of amounts accrued, if it does not prevail in this matter. 
Other Matters
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to other legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. Although the ultimate aggregate amount of probable monetary liability or financial impact with respect to these other matters is subject to many uncertainties, management believes that any monetary liability or financial impact to the Company from these other matters, individually and in the aggregate, would not be material to the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, any monetary liability and financial impact to the Company from these other matters could differ materially from the Company’s expectations.
Note 14.Separate Financial Information of Guarantor Subsidiaries
The Company’s 10.500% senior unsecured notes due 2024 (“Unsecured Notes”) are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis, subject to certain customary guarantor release conditions, by the WD Guarantors (or the “Guarantor Subsidiaries”). The guarantee by a Guarantor Subsidiary will be released in the event of (i) the designation of a Guarantor Subsidiary as an unrestricted subsidiary under the indenture governing the Unsecured Notes, (ii) the release of a Guarantor Subsidiary from its guarantee of indebtedness under the Credit Agreement or other indebtedness that would have required the Guarantor Subsidiary to guarantee the Unsecured Notes, (iii) the sale, issuance or other disposition of capital stock of a Guarantor Subsidiary such that it is no longer a restricted subsidiary under the indenture governing the Unsecured Notes, (iv) the sale of all or substantially all of a Guarantor Subsidiary’s assets, (v) the Company’s exercise of its defeasance options under the indenture governing the Unsecured Notes, (vi) the dissolution or liquidation of a Guarantor Subsidiary or (vii) the sale of all the equity interest in a Guarantor Subsidiary. The Company’s other domestic subsidiaries and its foreign subsidiaries (collectively, the “Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries”) do not guarantee the Unsecured Notes. The following condensed consolidating financial information reflects the summarized financial information of Western Digital Corporation (“Parent”), the Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis, and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis.
In January 2018, the Company announced its planned issuance of $2.30 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.750% senior unsecured notes due 2026 (the “2026 Notes”) and $1.00 billion aggregate principal amount of 1.5% convertible senior notes due 2024 (the “2024 Convertible Notes”). The 2024 Convertible Notes will be convertible into cash, shares of the Company’s common stock or a combination thereof, at an initial conversion price of approximately $121.91 per share. The issuance of the 2026 Notes and 2024 Convertible Notes is subject to customary closing conditions.
Since December 29, 2017, the Company also resumed its stock repurchase program and has repurchased approximately $151 million of its common stock in privately negotiated transactions, at a purchase price per share equal to $87.08 per share, with available cash on hand.
For a description of our legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 1, Note 13, Legal Proceedings, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated by reference in response to this item.
Item 1A.Risk Factors 
•Volatile Demand and Supplier Risk. Our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. In addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products. If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue. Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”), or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. These actions could result in reductions in our revenue and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
•Credit Volatility and Loss of Receivables. We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk from time to time by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances. As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances. Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. A significant loss of accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial condition.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, TMC, to develop and manufacture NAND-flash memory products for our NAND-flash memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) in May 2016, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger”), is dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
Flash Ventures requires significant investments by both TMC and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3D NAND, and capacity expansions. Lease financings guaranteed by or on behalf of both TMC and us are not currently available to Flash Ventures on favorable terms and we are pursuing alternative forms of financing to fund our share of investments, which might not continue to be accessible. To the extent that lease financings for Flash Ventures are not available on favorable terms or at all, more cash would be required to fund investments. If TMC does not or we do not provide sufficient resources, or have adequate access to credit, to timely fund investments in Flash Ventures, our investments could be delayed or reduced. 
As announced by Toshiba, TMC plans to construct a new wafer fabrication facility in Iwate, Japan to provide additional cleanroom space for the manufacture of 3D NAND, with site preparation scheduled to begin in February 2018. Although we intend to enter into agreements with TMC in due course to participate in the new Iwate facility, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so. If we are unable to extend our partnership with TMC to the Iwate facility on favorable terms, our future supply of captive NAND-flash memory could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our long-term business and financial results.
Integrating SanDisk’s operations with ours may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings of the Merger may not be realized.
The success of our acquisition of SanDisk, including anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses and culture of SanDisk into our company. It is possible that the integration process will take longer than anticipated. In addition, the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, higher than expected costs, ongoing diversion of management attention, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors, partners and employees. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, the actual cost savings of the Merger could be less than anticipated. Additionally, the integration of SanDisk’s operations into our operations may also increase the risk that our internal controls are found to be ineffective.
•difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where we have no or limited direct prior experience;
•successfully managing relationships with our strategic partners and our combined supplier and customer base;
•successfully transitioning to 3D NAND and future technologies;
•coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the combined company’s capabilities and the direction of product development;
•difficulties in integrating the systems and processes of two companies with complex operations and multiple manufacturing sites;
•the increased scale and complexity of our operations resulting from the Merger;
•retaining key employees;
•obligations that we have to counterparties of SanDisk that arose as a result of the change in control of SanDisk; and
•the diversion of management attention from other important business objectives.
As of December 29, 2017, our total indebtedness was $12.24 billion in aggregate principal, and we had $1.5 billion of additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. On January 29, 2018, we announced the Refinancing Transactions, which remain subject to market and other conditions. After giving effect to the Refinancing Transactions, as of December 29, 2017 our total indebtedness would have been $11.3 billion in aggregate principal and we would have had $1.5 billion of additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility.
•imposing financial and other restrictive covenants on our operations, including limiting our ability to (i) declare or pay dividends or purchase our common stock; (ii) purchase assets, make investments, complete acquisitions, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our assets to, another person; (iii) dispose of assets; (iv) incur liens; and (v) enter into transactions with affiliates;
Our ability to meet the debt service obligations contained in our debt agreements will depend on our available cash and our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in laws or regulations, industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of our products and pressure from competitors. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or should we fail to comply with our financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, causing an event of default under the applicable indebtedness, the debt holders could accelerate the related debt and that may result in the acceleration of any other debt, leases or other obligations to which a cross acceleration or cross-default provision applies. If we are required to repay our indebtedness before the due dates, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such indebtedness and we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue common stock or other equity securities. We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to us, in amounts sufficient to meet our needs or at all. Our inability to service our debt obligations or refinance our debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured indebtedness, the holder of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Refinancing our indebtedness, including through the Refinancing Transactions, may also require us to expense previous debt issuance costs or to incur new debt issuance costs.
In addition, our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. There can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future.
•Mobile Devices. There has been and continues to be a rapid growth in devices that do not contain a hard drive such as tablet computers and smart phones. As tablet computers and smart phones provide many of the same capabilities as PCs, they have displaced or materially affected, and we expect will continue to displace or materially affect, the demand for PCs. If we are not successful in adapting our product offerings to include disk drives or alternative storage solutions that address these devices, even after our acquisition of SanDisk, demand for our products in these markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, global slowdown in the growth rate of mobile devices will also negatively impact our financial results.
•Enterprise. The enterprise storage space is comprised of customers with long design, qualification and test cycles prior to sales. We spend substantial time and resources in our sales process without any assurance that our efforts will produce any customer orders on the timelines or in the quantities we expect. These lengthy and uncertain processes also make it difficult for us to forecast demand and timing of customer orders. Due to longer customer product cycles, we may not be able to transition customers to our leading edge products, which would prevent us from benefitting from the technology transitions that enable cost reductions, which may harm our gross margin. Demand for our enterprise solutions from our hyperscale customers is correlated to large projects and expansions which can be sporadic, resulting in demand that is lumpy and less consistent than the consumer-driven demand for many of our solutions. Hyperscale customers may place orders for significant volumes with short lead times that may be difficult for us to fulfill, and sales to hyperscale customers may negatively impact gross margins due to product mix and pricing, each of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, hyperscale companies may internally develop enterprise storage solutions that reduce the demand for our solutions. 
•Cloud Computing. Consumers traditionally have stored their data on their PC, often supplemented with personal external storage devices. Most businesses also include similar local storage as a primary or secondary storage location. This storage is typically provided by HDDs and increasingly SSDs. With cloud computing, applications and data are hosted, accessed and processed through a third-party provider over a broadband Internet connection, potentially reducing or eliminating the need for, among other things, significant storage inside the accessing electronic device. Even if we are successful at increasing revenues from sales to cloud computing customers, if we are not successful in manufacturing compelling products to address the cloud computing opportunity, demand for our products in these other markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. Demand for cloud computing solutions themselves may be volatile due to differing patterns of technology adoption and innovation, improved data storage efficiency by cloud computing service providers, and concerns about data protection by end users.
•Obsolete Inventory. In some cases, products we manufacture for these markets are uniquely configured for a single customer’s application, creating a risk of obsolete inventory if anticipated demand is not actually realized. In addition, rapid technological change in our industry increases the risk of inventory obsolescence.
Selling branded products is an important part of our business, and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes increasingly important to our operating results. Our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple channels. We must successfully respond to the rapid change away from traditional advertising media, marketing and sales methods to the use of Internet media and advertising, particularly social media, and online sales, or our brand and retail sales could be negatively affected. Adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. In addition, the proliferation of new methods of mass communication facilitated by the Internet makes it easier for false or unfounded allegations to adversely affect our brand image and reputation. If customers no longer maintain a preference for our product brands, our operating results may be adversely affected. A significant portion of our sales is made through retailers, and if our retailers are not successful in selling our products, not only would our revenue decrease, but we could also experience lower gross margin due to the return of unsold inventory or the protection we provide to retailers against price declines.
During the three months ended December 29, 2017, 41.2% of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, often resulting in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results and financial condition would likely be harmed. 
Our vertical integration of some of our products makes us dependent on our ability to timely and cost-effectively develop products with leading technology and overall quality, increasing capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks for our business.
We develop NAND-flash memory as well as other non-volatile memory technology through our partnership with TMC; we are also vertically integrated in a substantial portion of the recording heads and magnetic media used in the hard drive products we produce. Consequently, for some of our products, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of technologies developed by other manufacturers. Since we may not have access to alternative technologies that we do not develop internally, we may have to pay royalties in order to access those technologies. 
It may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. Advantages could be in price, capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, industry standards or formats, brand and marketing, or other attributes. A competitive cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is also critical to the success of our business. We may be at a competitive disadvantage to any companies that are able to gain a technological or cost structure advantage. The Chinese government and various agencies, state-owned or affiliated enterprises and investment funds are making significant investments to promote China’s domestic semiconductor industry consistent with the government’s stated national policy objectives. If we are unable to effectively compete with any manufacturers located in China or non-Chinese competitors benefitting from alliances with Chinese companies in the markets where we compete, our operating results and financial condition will suffer.
The data storage industry as a whole has experienced consolidation over the past several years through acquisitions, mergers and decisions by industry players to exit the industry. Further consolidation across the industry, including by our competitors who are vertically integrated with NAND-flash memory, may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage.
Some of our competitors with diversified business units outside of storage products, may, over extended periods of time, sell storage products at prices that we cannot profitably match.
We regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers, and the product qualification process may be lengthy for some customers, including those in enterprise storage. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation product, or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. The effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume OEMs and hyperscale customers, which continue to consolidate their share of the storage markets. Likewise, if product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could reduce our profits because we expect declining gross margins on our current generation products as a result of competitive pressures. Even if our products meet customer specifications, our sales to these customers are dependent upon the customers choosing our products over those of our competitors and purchasing our products in sufficient volume, our ability to supply our products in sufficient quantity and in a timely manner and, with respect to OEM partners, the OEMs’ ability to create, market and successfully sell products containing our solutions. Moreover, in transitioning to new technologies, such as 3D NAND, and products, we may not achieve design wins, our customers may delay transition to these new technologies, our competitors may transition more quickly than we do, or we may experience product delays, cost overruns or performance issues that could harm our operating results and financial condition.
We warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. We test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. However, our testing may fail to reveal defects in our products that may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. In addition, our products may be used in a manner that is not intended or anticipated by us, resulting in potential liability. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement. As part of a product recall, we may be required or choose to replace the defective product. Moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. If an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. In addition, product defects, product recalls or epidemic failures may cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, lost revenue, indemnification for a recall of our customers’ products, warranty claims, litigation or loss of market share with our customers, including our OEM and original design manufacturers (“ODM”) customers. Our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.
•our interests could diverge from our partners’ interests or we may not agree with co-venturers on ongoing activities, technology transitions or on the amount, timing or nature of further investments in the relationship;
•our control over the operations of our business ventures is limited;
•due to financial constraints, our co-venturers may be unable to meet their commitments to us or may pose credit risks for our transactions with them;
•a bankruptcy event involving a co-venturer could result in the early termination or adverse modification of the business venture or agreements governing the business venture;
•we may experience difficulties or delays in collecting amounts due to us from our co-venturers;
•the terms of our arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable; and
•changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our co-venturers.
We depend on an external supply base for technologies, software (including firmware), preamps, controller, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing. We also depend on suppliers for a portion of our wafer testing, chip assembly, product assembly and product testing, and on service suppliers for providing technical support for our products. In addition, we use logistics partners to manage our just-in-time hubs, distribution centers and freight from suppliers to our factories and from our factories to our customers throughout the world. Many of the components and much of the equipment we acquire must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole-source suppliers. We are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated into our products, technology and equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture our next-generation products efficiently. Our supply base has experienced industry consolidation. Where we rely on a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier, the risk of supplier loss due to industry consolidation is enhanced. Some of our suppliers may be competitors in other areas of our business, which could lead to difficulties in price negotiations or meeting our supply requirements. Any disruption in our supply chain could reduce our revenue and adversely impact our financial results.
From time to time, our suppliers have experienced difficulty meeting our requirements. If we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers or qualify and engage additional suppliers, we may not be able to meet demand for our products. We do not have long-term contracts with some of our existing suppliers, nor do we always have guaranteed manufacturing capacity with our suppliers and, therefore, we cannot guarantee that they will devote sufficient resources or capacity to manufacturing our products. We are not able to directly control product delivery schedules or quality assurance. Furthermore, we manufacture on a turnkey basis with some of our suppliers. In these arrangements, we do not have visibility and control of our suppliers’ inventories of purchased parts necessary to build our products or of the progress of our products through their assembly line. Any significant problems that occur at our suppliers, or their failure to perform at the level we expect, could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, either of which would harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers, we may not be able to engage alternative suppliers who are able or willing to provide goods or services in sufficient quantities or at a cost acceptable to us.
Many of our products require preamps, controllers and firmware. We rely on a limited number of third-party vendors to develop or supply preamps and controllers for many of our products. Any delays or cost increases in developing or sourcing preamps, controllers or firmware, or incompatibility or quality issues relating to the controllers or firmware in our products, could harm our financial results as well as business relationships with our customers.
A majority of our flash memory is currently supplied by Flash Ventures and, to a much lesser extent, by third-party silicon suppliers. Any disruption or shortage in supply of flash memory from our captive or non-captive sources would harm our operating results and financial condition. Many of the risks that affect us also affect our supply base and Flash Ventures, including, but not limited to, having single site manufacturing locations and other facilities based in high risk regions of the world (for example, Flash Ventures is located in Yokkaichi, Japan), natural disasters, power shortages, macro and local economic conditions, shortages of commodity materials, proper management of technology transitions, geo-political risks, employee strikes and other labor actions, compliance with legal requirements, financial instability and exposure to IP and other litigation, including an injunction or other action that could delay shipping. If any of these risks were to affect our suppliers or Flash Ventures, we could also be adversely affected, especially in the case of products, components or services that are single-sourced. For example, if suppliers are facing increased costs due to the above risks, they may require us to enter into long-term volume agreements to shift the burden of fixed costs to us. Further, we work closely with many of our suppliers and strategic partners to develop new technologies and, as a result, we may become subject to litigation from our suppliers, strategic partners or third parties.
Without a capable and financially stable supply base that has established appropriate relationships within the supply chain and has implemented business processes, strategies and risk management safeguards, we would be unable to develop our products, manufacture them in high volumes, and distribute them to our customers to execute our business plans effectively. Some of our suppliers have also experienced a decline in financial performance. Our suppliers may be acquired by our competitors, consolidate, or decide to exit the industry, redirect their investments and increase costs to us, each of which may have an adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, moving to new technologies may require us to align to, and build, a new supply base. Our success in new product areas may be dependent on our ability to develop close relationships with new suppliers, with preferential agreements. Where this cannot be done, our business and operations may be adversely affected.
for a review of some of the risks related to these supplies.
Price volatility, shortages of critical materials or components, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the storage industry, may negatively impact our operating results.
Contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components or may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory.
To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs. In addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. Some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. Furthermore, as a result of uncertain global economic conditions, our ability to forecast our requirements for these components has become increasingly difficult, therefore increasing the risk that our contractual commitments may not meet our actual supply requirements, which could cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory and adversely affect our operating results and increase our operating costs.
Many companies, including some of our competitors, have developed or are attempting to develop alternative non-volatile technologies. Successful broad-based commercialization of one or more competing technologies, as well as differing strategies and timing with respect to the transition from 2D NAND to 3D NAND, could reduce the competitiveness and future revenue and profitability of our 2D NAND and 3D NAND-flash technologies. For additional technology transition risks related to 3D NAND, see “We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results” and “Our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.”
Changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results.
The difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction.
Storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk’s areal density. Areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. Generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. Higher areal densities require existing recording head and magnetic media technology to be improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. Historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. Increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. However, increasing areal density has become more difficult in the storage industry. If we are not able to increase areal density at the same rate as our competitors or at a rate that is expected by our customers, we may be required to include more components in our drives to meet demand without corresponding incremental revenue, which could negatively impact our operating margins and make achieving historical levels of cost reduction difficult or unlikely. Additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new test equipment needed as a result of an increased number of gigabytes per platter. Our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results.
•difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp;
•implementing at an acceptable cost product features expected by our customers;
•effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand;
•quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction and problems with compatibility between our products and those of our customers that were not anticipated in the design of those products;
•our ability to increase our software development capability; and
•the effectiveness of our go-to-market capability in selling these new products.
In particular, as part of our growth strategy, we have made significant investments in active archive systems, which are designed to enable organizations to rapidly access massive long-term data stores. We expect to continue to make significant investments in active archive systems. Our active archive systems may fail to gain market acceptance, or the market for active archive systems may not grow as we anticipate.
Additionally, we have announced our intention to transition future core, processor and controller development to the RISC-V architecture, which is an open source, data-centric compute architecture. There is no guarantee that this transition will be successful or that the expected benefits of such transition will be realized.
As a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities in California and throughout Asia. The concentration of Flash Ventures in Yokkaichi, Japan, magnifies the risks of supply disruption. The facilities of many of our customers, our suppliers and our customers’ suppliers are also concentrated in certain geographic locations throughout Asia and elsewhere. A localized health risk affecting our employees at these facilities or the staff of our or our customers’ other suppliers, such as the spread of a pandemic influenza, could impair the total volume of our products that we are able to manufacture or sell, which would result in substantial harm to our operating results. Similarly, a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities, including access to or from these facilities by employees or logistics operators, would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. For example, prior to the 2011 flooding in Thailand, all of our internal slider capacity and 60% of our hard drive manufacturing capacity was in Thailand. As a result of the flooding in Thailand, our facilities were inundated and temporarily shut down. During that period, our ability to manufacture hard drives was significantly constrained, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the concentration of our manufacturing sites could exacerbate the negative impacts resulting from localized labor unrest or other employment issues. A significant event that impacts any of our manufacturing sites, or the sites of our customers or suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer.
We may incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the scope of, the coverage of our insurance policies. There can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to maintain existing insurance coverage or that premiums will not increase substantially. Due to market availability, pricing or other reasons, we may elect not to purchase insurance coverage or to purchase only limited coverage. We maintain limited insurance coverage and, in some cases, no coverage at all, for natural disasters and environmental damages, as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost. We depend upon TMC to obtain and maintain sufficient property, business interruption and other insurance for Flash Ventures. If TMC fails to do so, we could suffer significant unreimbursable losses, and such failure could also cause Flash Ventures to breach various financing covenants.
If our technology infrastructure, systems or products are compromised, damaged or interrupted by cyber attacks, data security breaches, other security problems, security vulnerabilities or design defects, or sustain system failures, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.
We experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on our technology infrastructure and systems and, as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained in the past, and may in the future obtain, access to our computer systems and networks. The technology infrastructure and systems of our suppliers, vendors and partners may also experience such attacks. Cyber attacks can include computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, worms, and other malicious software programs or other attacks, covert introduction of malware to computers and networks, impersonation of authorized users, and efforts to discover and exploit any design flaws, bugs, security vulnerabilities or security weaknesses, as well as intentional or unintentional acts by employees or other insiders with access privileges, intentional acts of vandalism by third parties and sabotage. In some instances, efforts to correct vulnerabilities or prevent attacks may reduce the performance of our computer systems and networks, which could negatively impact our business. We believe cyber attack attempts are increasing in number and that cyber attackers are developing increasingly sophisticated systems and means to not only attack systems, but also to evade detection or to obscure their activities. Our products are also targets for cyber attacks. While some of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third-party content or user-generated data stored on our products, these products could still be hacked or the encryption schemes could be compromised, breached, or circumvented by motivated and sophisticated attackers. We have agreed with certain customers and strategic partners, including TMC, to undertake certain commitments to promote information security, and we may be liable to TMC or such other parties if we fail to meet our cyber security commitments.
In addition, our technology infrastructure and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures. Further, our products contain sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that may contain security problems, security vulnerabilities, or defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could interfere with the intended operation of our products.
Manufacturing, marketing and selling our products globally subjects us to numerous risks.
•obtaining requisite governmental permits and approvals, compliance with foreign laws and regulations, changes in foreign laws and regulations;
•the need to comply with regulations on international business, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010, the anti-bribery laws of other countries and rules regarding conflict minerals;
•currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions;
•political and economic instability, civil unrest and natural disasters;
•limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines;
•higher freight rates;
•labor challenges, including difficulties finding and retaining talent or responding to labor disputes or disruptions;
•trade restrictions or higher tariffs and fees;
•import and export restrictions and license and certification requirements, including on encryption technology, and complex customs regulations;
•copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in European and other countries;
•exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations;
•increasing labor and overhead costs; 
•weaker protection of IP rights;
•difficulties in managing international operations, including appropriate internal controls; and
•loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities.
As a result of these risks, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Some of these risks, such as trade restrictions, higher tariffs and fees, import and export restrictions or loss of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities, could increase as a result of changes to policies, rules and regulations which may be proposed or implemented by the U.S. President and his administration.
Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results.
Sudden disruptions to the availability of air transportation, or ocean or land freight lanes, could have an impact on our operations.
We generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air, ocean or land freight. The sudden unavailability or disruption of air transportation, cargo operations or ocean, rail or truck freight lanes caused by, among other things, labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently receive shipments from our suppliers or deliver our products.
We seek to be an industry-leading developer, manufacturer and provider of innovative storage solutions, balancing our core hard drive and flash memory business with growing investments in newer areas that we believe will provide us with higher growth opportunities. Acquisitions of, investment opportunities in, or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business are a key part of our overall business strategy. In order to pursue this part of our growth strategy successfully, we must continue to identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. We may not be able to continue to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. We are also subject to certain covenants in our debt agreements which place limits on our ability to complete acquisitions and investments. Even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. Failing to successfully integrate or realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies of an acquisition may result in not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In addition, failing to achieve the financial model projections for an acquisition or changes in technology development and related roadmaps following an acquisition may result in the incurrence of impairment charges and other expenses, both of which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Acquisitions and investments may also result in the issuance of equity securities that may be dilutive to our shareholders and the issuance of additional indebtedness which would put additional pressure on liquidity. Furthermore, we may agree to provide continuing service obligations or enter into other agreements in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals of our corporate transactions, and failure to satisfy these additional obligations could result in our failing to obtain regulatory approvals or the imposition of additional obligations on us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The loss of our key executive management, staff and skilled employees, the inability to hire and integrate new employees or decisions to realign our business could negatively impact our business prospects.
We are subject to risks associated with loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities.
We are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the U.S. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of third-party data including data that relates to or identifies an individual person. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. Our possession and use of third-party data, including personal data and employee data in conducting our business subjects us to legal and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees or other parties with which we have commercial relations of a data security breach and to respond to regulatory inquiries and to enforcement proceedings. Global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Compliance requirements and even our inadvertent failure to comply with applicable laws may cause us to incur substantial costs, subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others, and cause us to incur penalties or other significant legal liability, or lead us to change our business practices.
The nature of our industry and its reliance on IP and other proprietary information subjects us and our suppliers, customers and partners to the risk of significant litigation.
Our reliance on IP and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors.
The costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, anti-corruption and tax regulations, customers’ standards of corporate citizenship, and industry and coalition standards, such as those established by the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (“EICC”), could cause an increase in our operating costs.
We are subject to, and may become subject to additional, state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, anti-corruption and tax practices. These laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. We will need to ensure that we and our suppliers and partners timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. Legislation has been, and may in the future be, enacted in locations where we manufacture or sell our products. In addition, climate change and financial reform legislation is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal, international or other regulatory responses in the near future. If we or our suppliers or partners fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, or legal liability and reputational damage, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
In connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry and coalition environmental initiatives, such as those established by the EICC, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause our financial condition and operating results to suffer.
Violation of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and certain other practices by our suppliers, customers or partners could harm our business.
•interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components;
•damaging our reputation;
•forcing us to find alternate component sources;
•reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott); or
•exposing us to potential liability for our suppliers’, customers’ or partners’ wrongdoings.
Flash Ventures’ equipment lease agreements contain covenants and other cancellation events, and cancellation of the leases would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.
Flash Ventures sells and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions (“lessors”) a portion of its equipment and Flash Ventures has entered into equipment lease agreements, most of which we and Toshiba each guarantee half of the total outstanding obligations and some of which we guarantee in full for our share of the Flash Ventures investment. As of December 29, 2017, the portion of outstanding Flash Ventures’ lease obligations covered by our guarantees totaled approximately $941 million, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate at December 29, 2017. The equipment lease agreements contain covenants and cancellation events that are customary for Japanese lease facilities and that relate to Flash Ventures and each of the guarantors. Cancellation events relating to the guarantors include, among other things, an assignment of all or a substantial part of a guarantor’s business, a bankruptcy event involving a guarantor and acceleration of other monetary debts of a guarantor above a specified threshold.
The breach of a covenant or the occurrence of another cancellation event could result in an acceleration of the Flash Ventures’ lease obligations. If a cancellation event were to occur, Flash Ventures would be required to negotiate a resolution with the lessors, as well as other parties to the lease transactions, to avoid cancellation and acceleration of the lease obligations. Such resolution could include, among other things, supplementary security to be supplied by us, as guarantor, increased interest rates or waiver fees. If a cancellation event occurs and we fail to reach a resolution, we may be required to pay all or a portion of the outstanding lease obligations covered by our guarantees, which would significantly reduce our cash position and may force us to seek additional financing, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all.
We may modify, suspend or cancel our cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time. Any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends are reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying cash dividends at historical levels could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results.
Because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, cost of goods sold, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated. Additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in U.S. dollars from non-U.S. based vendors. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. In addition, our purchases of NAND-flash memory from Flash Ventures and our investment in Flash Ventures are denominated in Japanese yen. If the Japanese yen appreciates against the U.S. dollar, our cost of purchasing NAND-flash memory wafers and the cost to us of future capital funding of Flash Ventures would increase, which could negatively impact our operating results. If any of these events occur, they would have a negative impact on our operating results.
We attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. However, these contracts do not cover our full exposure, and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. Thus, our decisions and hedging strategy with respect to currency risks may not be successful and harm our operating results. Further, the ability to enter into foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions is based upon our available credit from such institutions and compliance with covenants and other restrictions. Operating losses, third party downgrades of our credit rating or instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to effectively manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk. Hedging also exposes us to the credit risk of our counterparty financial institutions.
Increases in our customers’ credit risk could result in credit losses and term extensions under existing contracts with customers with credit losses could result in an increase in our operating costs.
Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as ODMs, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our OEM customers. Because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Additionally, as we attempt to expand our OEM and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. Any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, especially in situations where there are term extensions under existing contracts with such customers, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results.
•weakness in demand for one or more product categories;
•the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers, loss of major customers;
•our product mix;
•reductions in the ASPs of our products and lower margins;
•excess output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lower ASPs, financial charges or impairments, or insufficient output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lost revenue opportunities;
•inability to successfully transition to 3D NAND or other technology developments, or other failure to reduce product costs to keep pace with reduction in ASPs;
•manufacturing delays or interruptions;
•delays in design wins or customer qualifications, acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products;
•success of our partnerships and joint ventures, in particular the volume, timing and cost of wafer production at Flash Ventures, and our success in managing the relationships with our strategic partners;
•ability to penetrate new markets for our storage solutions;
•limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers;
•increase in costs due to warranty claims;
•higher costs as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations; and
•availability and rates of transportation.
•price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors;
•inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value);
•testing of goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment;
•accruals for product returns;
•accruals for litigation and other contingencies
•liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and
•provisional estimates related to tax reform.
In addition, changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
•perceptions about our strategic relationships and joint ventures, access to supply of NAND-flash memory, new technologies and technology transitions;
•new products introduced by us or our competitors;
•periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation;
•proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments or anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us or our competitors;
•conditions and trends in the hard drive, solid-state storage, flash memory, computer, mobile, data and content management, storage and communication industries;
•failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates or changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts relating specifically to us or the storage industry in general;
•announcements relating to dividends and share repurchases; and
Given the international footprint of our business, we have both domestic and international cash balances and investments. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, security types, and maturities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, political, sovereign and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. A material part of our investment portfolio consists of investment grade corporate securities, bank deposits, asset backed securities and U.S. government and agency securities. If global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that our investments may experience an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. A failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) limits could also have an adverse impact on our financial position.
In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to repay our indebtedness, fund acquisitions, pay dividends, or repurchase shares of our common stock, we may choose or be required to increase our borrowings, if available, or to repatriate funds to the U.S. at an additional tax cost. We must comply with regulations regarding the conversion and distribution of funds earned in the local currencies of various countries. If we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in these countries.
