fls.txt



item1.txt
We are in the process of ensuring our accounting policies are applied at SAM.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we obtained additional information affecting the provisional amount initially recorded for the valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credits in 2017.
With respect to dividend and liquidation rights, the Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock and junior to all of our existing and future indebtedness.
The 2024 Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by certain of our subsidiaries.
Our measure of segment assets does not include cash, goodwill, intangible assets, deferred tax assets, or corporate assets.
Adoption resulted in a $2.6 million, net of tax increase to retained earnings.
We are a signal transmission solutions provider built around two global business platforms – Enterprise Solutions and Industrial Solutions.
Corporate expenses are allocated on the basis of each segment’s relative EBITDA prior to the allocation.
Sales commissions are recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses.
To determine the value of the acquired property, plant, and equipment, we used various valuation methods, including both the market approach, which considers sales prices of similar assets in similar conditions (Level 2 valuation), and the cost approach, which considers the cost to replace the asset adjusted for depreciation (Level 3 valuation).
We used the net proceeds from this offering and cash on hand to repurchase the 2023 and 2024 Notes - see further discussion below.
Generally, the standalone selling prices are determined based upon the prices charged to customers.
During the fourth quarter of 2016, we committed to a plan to sell our MCS business and Hirschmann JV.
Estimated price adjustments recognized against our gross accounts receivable balance as of April 1, 2018 totaled $25.7 million.
In the event the related service or support period is twelve months or less, we apply the practical expedient and expense the sales commissions when incurred.
On March 27, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the redemption of all outstanding preferred share purchase rights issued pursuant to the then existing Rights Agreement (commonly known as a “poison pill”).
As of April 1, 2018, we were party to standby letters of credit, bank guaranties, and surety bonds totaling $7.3 million, $2.7 million, and $2.4 million, respectively.
Segment EBITDA excludes certain items, including depreciation expense; amortization of intangibles; asset impairment; severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; purchase accounting effects related to acquisitions, such as the adjustment of acquired inventory and deferred revenue to fair value; and other costs.
The fair value of our senior subordinated notes as of April 1, 2018 was approximately $1,685.8 million based on quoted prices of the debt instruments in inactive markets (Level 2 valuation).


item2.txt
We experienced strong demand across all of our markets, with total Industrial Solutions orders increasing approximately 11% year-over-year.
To the extent that we exceed the market growth rates, we consider it to be the result of capturing market share.
We expect to incur approximately $41 million of additional severance and restructuring costs for this program, most of which will be incurred by the end of 2018.
In July 2017, we issued €450.0 million aggregate principal amount of new senior subordinated notes due 2027 at an interest rate of 3.375%.
•The acquisitions of SAM and Thinklogical contributed $28.6 million to the increase in revenues.
•The divestiture of our MCS business resulted in a revenue decrease of $6.0 million.
118 (“SAB 118”) was issued to address the application of US GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act.
We recognized $9.2 million of severance and other restructuring costs for this program during the three months ended April 1, 2018.
We disclaim any duty to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As described above, we have designed and implemented additional controls in connection with our remediation plan.


part2.txt
On April 12, 2018, Corning filed a petition for re-hearing.


