fls.txt



item1.txt
NT2 is located in the United States.
We have outstanding €300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.875% senior subordinated notes due 2025 (the 2025 Notes).
During the fourth quarter of 2016, we committed to a plan to sell our MCS business and Hirschmann JV.
As of July 1, 2018, we did not have any such cash equivalents on hand.
On December 22, 2017, SAB 118 was issued to address the application of US GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act.
Despite our efforts to make clear in our marketing materials and customer agreements the capabilities and limitations of these products, some customers may incorrectly view the deployment of such products in their IT infrastructure as a guarantee that there will be no security breach or policy non-compliance event.
In addition, many countries in the European Union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws.
The above purchase price allocation is preliminary, and is subject to revision as additional information about the fair value of individual assets and liabilities becomes available.
We have recorded reserves for the estimated impact of these inventory policies.
Our fiscal first quarter ends on the Sunday falling closest to 91 days after December 31, which was April 1, 2018, the 91st day of our fiscal year 2018.
The amortizable intangible assets reflected in the table above were determined by us to have finite lives.
Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., goodwill and certain other intangible assets are not amortized but must be reviewed for possible impairment annually or more often in certain circumstances if events indicate that the asset values may not be recoverable.
For purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the six months ended July 2, 2017 includes nonrecurring expenses related to the acquisition, including severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; amortization of the sales backlog intangible asset; and cost of sales arising from the adjustment of inventory to fair value of $29.5 million, $1.8 million, and $1.5 million, respectively.
There is a risk that we may not be successful in developing or executing these measures to achieve the expected results for a variety of reasons, including market developments, economic conditions, shortcomings in establishing appropriate action plans, or challenges with executing multiple initiatives simultaneously.
Generally, we have recovered much of the higher cost of raw materials through higher pricing of our finished products.
On May 25, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program, which allows us to purchase up to $200.0 million of our common stock through open market repurchases, negotiated transactions, or other means, in accordance with applicable securities laws and other restrictions.
We received a pre-tax amount of approximately $62.1 million from Corning on July 19, 2018.


item2.txt
These increases were partially offset by $5.7 million and $9.6 million, respectively, from improved productivity and $0.5 million and $1.2 million, respectively, from the MCS divestiture in the fourth quarter of 2017.
in selling, general and administrative expenses year-over-year.
The manufacturing consolidation will be completed this year.
•We recognized an income tax benefit of $1.2 million in the three and six months ended July 1, 2018 due to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions of prior years.
Therefore, all references to the effect of copper prices or other commodity prices are estimates.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Copper is a significant component of the cost of most of our cable products.
Further, the variance in considerations that drive purchasing decisions between CIOs and those with niche application expertise may result in increased competition based on price and a reduction in demand for our products.
We may be unable to achieve our strategic priorities in emerging markets.
Disagreements about patents and other intellectual property rights occur in the markets we serve.
The loss of any of our senior management or other key employees, for example sales and product development employees, could have an adverse effect on us.
Prices of other materials we use, such as polyvinylchloride (PVC) and other plastics derived from petrochemical feedstocks, have also been volatile.
We may not be able to acquire businesses that fit our strategic plan on acceptable business terms, and we may not achieve our other strategic priorities.


