fls.txt



item1.txt
Price erosion may occur through competitors becoming more aggressive in pricing practices.
Disruption in those structures can create significant market uncertainty.
Consequently, the standard eliminates the exception to the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer other than for inventory until the asset has been sold to an outside party.
We may be unable to implement our strategic plan successfully.
See further discussion in Part I, Item 1 to our 2017 Form 10-K, under Research and Development.
Some of the integration challenges we might face include differences in corporate culture and management styles, additional or conflicting governmental regulations, preparation of the acquired operations for adoption of ASC 606, compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, financial reporting that is not in compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, disparate company policies and practices, customer relationship issues, and retention of key personnel.
Compliance with these laws, regulations and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and they may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance and doing business.
Pro forma adjustments exclude cost savings from any synergies resulting from the acquisition.
For example, our MDS initiative may not succeed or we may lose market share due to challenges in choosing the right products to market or the right customers for these products, integrating products of acquired companies into our sales and marketing strategy, or strategically bidding against OEM partners.
Some of our employees are members of collective bargaining groups, and we might be subject to labor actions that would interrupt our business.
We used the net proceeds from this offering and cash on hand to repurchase the 2023 and 2024 Notes - see further discussion below.
More broadly, a key determinant of our success is our ability to attract, develop, and retain talented associates.
Our customers use our signal transmission solutions in a wide variety of IT systems and application environments in order to help reduce security vulnerabilities and demonstrate compliance.
We capitalize sales commissions in other current and long-lived assets on our balance sheet when the duration of the related revenue arrangement is longer than one year, and we amortize it over the related revenue arrangement period.
The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment.
Further, the supply chain in the fiber market is highly constrained, with a small number of vertically integrated firms controlling critical inputs and the related intellectual property.
The useful life for the developed technology intangible asset was based on the estimated time that the technology provides us with a competitive advantage and thus approximates the period and pattern of consumption of the intangible asset.


item2.txt
During the first quarter of 2018, we began a restructuring program to integrate SAM with Grass Valley.
We also seek to acquire businesses that we believe can help us achieve these objectives.
In September 2017, we issued €300.0 million aggregate principal amount of new senior subordinated notes due 2025 at an interest rate of 2.875%, and used the net proceeds of this offering to repurchase €300.0 million of our outstanding €500.0 million 5.5% senior subordinated notes due 2023.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recognized $118.2 million of income before taxes, as compared to a $10.2 million loss before taxes in the year ago period.
Industrial Solutions revenues increased in both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 from the comparable periods of 2017.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
For example, relatively more income in higher tax rate jurisdictions would increase our effective tax rate and thus lower our net income.
See Note 12 Income Taxes in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements.
As a result, it is difficult to precisely forecast revenue and operating results for future quarters.
Our ability to implement our business strategy and grow our business, particularly through acquisitions, may depend on our ability to raise capital by selling equity or debt securities or obtaining additional debt financing.
Our ability to implement our business strategy and grow our business, particularly through acquisitions, may depend on our ability to raise capital by selling equity or debt securities or obtaining additional debt financing.
On September 27, 2018, Corning filed a petition for certiorari review by the U.S. Supreme Court of the District Court’s decision to exercise its discretion to award PPC $23.85 million in enhanced damages based on the totality of the evidence, including a number of factual findings regarding Corning’s willful infringement and egregious conduct.
The timing of such projects is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such projects may affect period to period changes in revenue.


