We classify cash on hand and deposits in banks, including commercial paper, money market accounts, and other investments with an original maturity of three months or less, that we hold from time to time, as cash and cash equivalents.
We are, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to our business.
These effective rates are also reflective of the impact of more favorable statutory tax rates applied to the earnings of these foreign operations due to the restructuring efforts.
we expect to receive changes or when the consideration becomes fixed.
We acquired 100% of the shares of Net-Tech Technology, Inc. (NT2) on April 25, 2018 for a purchase price of $8.5 million that was funded with cash on hand.
The following tables present our revenues disaggregated by products, including software products, and support and services.
We sell our products to distributors, end-users, installers, and directly to original equipment manufacturers.
Corporate expenses are allocated on the basis of each segment’s relative EBITDA prior to the allocation.
For purposes of the above allocation, we based our estimate of the fair values for the acquired inventory; property, plant, and equipment; intangible assets; and deferred revenue on valuation studies performed by a third party valuation firm.
The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment.
We used various valuation methods including discounted cash flows, lost income, excess earnings, and relief from royalty to estimate the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and deferred revenue (Level 3 valuation).
Adjustments to revenue for performance obligations satisfied in prior periods were not significant during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018.
We are a party to various other legal proceedings and administrative actions that are incidental to our operations.Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we recognized income tax expense of $5.2 million and $10.8 million, respectively, representing an effective tax rate of 10.9% and 13.8%, respectively.
The costs were incurred by the Enterprise Solutions segment.
Investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 included capital expenditures of $50.8 million compared to $39.5 million in the comparable period of 2018.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, decreases in volume, unfavorable currency translation, and lower copper prices contributed an estimated $58.3 million, $10.4 million, and $3.9 million to the decline in revenues, respectively, partially offset by the impact of acquisitions, which contributed an estimated $18.3 million increase in revenues.