Due to the integration of SAM into our existing business, we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount of income before taxes from SAM included in our consolidated financial statements.
Pro forma adjustments exclude cost savings from any synergies resulting from the acquisition.
For the three months ended September 29, 2019, the loss before taxes included $3.1 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $1.4 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $(0.1) million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value.
We did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
The income tax expense for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 was also impacted by a $5.1 million income tax benefit for the partial deductibility of the goodwill and other asset impairment charge during the period.
We generate revenues primarily by selling products that provide secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
During the nine months ended September 29, 2019, we repurchased 0.9 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $50.0 million and an average price per share of $56.19.
taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2018 included $7.1 million of severance and other restructuring costs, $3.7 million of amortization of intangible assets, and $0.6 million of cost of sales related to the adjustment of acquired inventory to fair value from SAM.
We generate revenues primarily by selling products that provide secure and reliable transmission of data, sound, and video for mission critical applications.
We recognized amortization expense related to our intangible assets of $23.4 million and $71.2 million in the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019.
We also consider whether an active program to locate a buyer has been initiated, whether the disposal group is marketed actively for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value, and whether actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn.
Our Revolving Credit Agreement provides a $400.0 million multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility (the Revolver).Therefore, all references to the effect of copper prices or other commodity prices are estimates.
Improved productivity; a decline in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs; and currency translation contributed $10.0 million, $3.0 million, and $1.2 million, respectively, to the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 29, 2019 as compared to the year ago period; partially offset by the impact of acquisitions, which increased selling, general and administrative expenses by $1.7 million.
During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, approximately 48% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S.
Gross profit for the nine months ended September 29, 2019 decreased due to the decreases in revenue discussed above as well as unfavorable mix; partially offset by decreases in severance, restructuring, and acquisition integration costs of $19.7 million from the comparable period of 2018.
During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, approximately 48% of our consolidated revenues were to customers outside of the U.S.
Our exposure to currency rate fluctuations primarily relates to exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the euro, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, British pound, Indian rupee, and Brazilian real.