Under the typical payment terms of our long term fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.
Total contract cost is estimated utilizing current contract specifications and expected engineering requirements.
Revenue is recognized when control of the goods or services promised under the contract is transferred to the customer either at a point in time (e.g., upon delivery) or over time (e.g., as we perform under the contract).
Under the typical payment terms of our long term fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.
Total contract cost is estimated utilizing current contract specifications and expected engineering requirements.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for the commercial and military contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or service to be provided.
On October 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No.
The Company expects hedging gains or losses to be essentially offset by losses or gains on the related underlying exposures.
Therefore, each product is distinct in context of the contract and will be accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
We generally use the cost-to-cost method to measure progress for our Filtration segment contracts the rate at which costs are incurred to fulfill a contract best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.
The Credit Facility includes a $450 million revolving line of credit as well as provisions allowing for the increase of the credit facility commitment amount by an additional $250 million, if necessary, with the consent of the lenders.
The Company recorded a provisional charge for the Transition Tax of $3.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2018 and this charge is complete as of December 31, 2018 with minimal changes.The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018 was driven by lower earnings and higher working capital requirements.
The Company recorded a provisional charge for the Transition Tax of $3.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2018 and this charge is complete as of December 31, 2018 with minimal changes.
In the first quarter of 2019, net sales of $41.3 million were $3.8 million, or 10.0%, higher than the $37.5 million in the first quarter of 2018.
Cash flow from operations and borrowings under the Company’s credit facility are expected to meet the Company’s capital requirements and operational needs for the foreseeable future.
The increase in EBIT in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the increased sales volumes mainly from the segment’s U.S. operations.
The principal component in other income, net, in the first quarter of 2019 was a gain of approximately $8 million on the sale of the Doble Watertown, MA building and land.