Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Cypress" or the "Company") reports on a fiscal-year basis. The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year. Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 each contain(ed) 52 weeks. The first quarter of fiscal 2019 ended on March 31, 2019 and the first quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on April 1, 2018.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Company applies the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 842 to individual leases of assets. When the Company receives substantially all of the economic benefits from and directs the use of specified property, plant and equipment, transactions give rise to leases.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in our consolidated balance sheets. 
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets. Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable. These elections are applied consistently for all leases.
The Company subleases certain portions of buildings and land subject to operating leases. The terms and conditions of the subleases are commensurate with the terms and conditions within the original operating leases. The term of the subleases range from one to eight years, payments are fixed within the contracts, and there are no residual value guarantees or other restrictions or covenants in the leases. 
When discount rates implicit in leases cannot be readily determined, the Company uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to perform lease classification tests on lease components and to measure lease liabilities and ROU assets. The incremental borrowing rate used by the Company was based on baseline rates and adjusted by the credit spreads 
commensurate with the Company’s secured borrowing rate, over a similar term. At each reporting period when there is a new lease initiated, the rates established for that quarter will be used. 
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases (ASC Topic 842)". The standard introduces new requirements to increase transparency and comparability among organizations for leasing transactions for both lessees and lessors. ASU No. 2016-02 requires a lessee to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with terms longer than 12 months. These leases will be either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition. 
In July 2018, the Board issued ASU 2018-11, which provided an alternative modified retrospective transition method. Under this method, the cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings is recognized on the date of adoption (December 31, 2018). The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, as of December 31, 2018 and applied the alternative modified retrospective transition method requiring application of the new guidance to all leases existing at, or entered into on or after, the date of adoption, i.e. December 31, 2018.
On April 1, 2019, the Company closed the transfer of its NAND business to a newly-formed joint venture between the Company and SK hynix system ic ("SKHS"). The joint venture entity will be called SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh") and its headquarter will be in Hong Kong, China. SkyHigh will be 60-percent-owned by SKHS and 40-percent-owned by Cypress. The Company paid $2.4 million in cash as its capital contribution in SkyHigh upon close of the transaction. Additionally, Cypress will provide certain transition and back-end manufacturing services to SkyHigh. 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company allocated $65.7 million of goodwill previously recorded in the MPD segment to the NAND business being divested. The allocation was based on the relative estimated enterprise value of the NAND business and that of the MPD business. The intangible assets attributable to the NAND business acquired as part of a previous acquisition were $10.9 million. Based on an analysis carried out in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $76.6 million which related to the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to the NAND business and classified as held-for-sale. During the first quarter of the fiscal 2019, the Company recognized an incremental loss of $3.5 million related to adjustments in the carrying value of certain assets and estimated costs of certain transition services.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018 inventories related to the NAND business in the amount of $10.8 million and $13.5 million, respectively, were classified as held-for-sale assets as SkyHigh has agreed to purchase such inventories. SkyHigh will pay cash consideration for these inventories to the Company of a fixed amount and a contingent amount to be determined based on the profit on sales of such inventories generated by SkyHigh, if any. 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company determined that its investment in Deca was other-than temporarily impaired and recognized a charge of $41.5 million in order to write down the carrying amount of the investment in Deca to the estimated fair value as of the end of fiscal 2018. Given the factors described above, there continues to be a substantial risk that the carrying value of our investment in Deca may become impaired in the future. If Deca is unable to (a) secure sufficient orders from its existing significant customers or other new customers, (b) raise sufficient funding, if needed, for continuing its operations, (c) consummate a strategic transaction that allows realization of its economic value, Cypress will be required to partially or fully impair the carrying value of its investment in Deca. The Company’s carrying value in Deca was $61.6 million and $65.1 million as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company held 52.5% of Deca's outstanding voting shares as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018. The Company's investment in Deca is accounted for as an equity method investment. 
The below table presents the changes in carrying value of the equity method investment related to Deca.
The following table represents the assets and liabilities held by Deca as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018.
The Company did not have any material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018. 
Certain of the Company’s assets, including intangible assets, goodwill and assets held for sale, are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis using Level 3 inputs if impairment is indicated. 
As of March 31, 2019, the carrying value of the Company's senior secured credit facility was $442.5 million (See Note 10). The carrying value of the Company's senior secured credit facility approximates its fair value since it bears an interest rate that is comparable to rates on similar credit facilities and is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The Company's 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes assumed as part of the Company's merger with Spansion Inc. ("Spansion") are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and are categorized as Level 2 inputs. The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of March 31, 2019 were $12.0 million and $37.6 million, respectively. See Note 10 for further details.
The Company’s 4.5% 2022 Senior Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs. The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of March 31, 2019 were $287.5 million and $363.3 million, respectively. See Note 10 for further details.
The Company's 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs. The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of March 31, 2019 were $150.0 million and $152.7 million, respectively. See Note 10 for further details.
In fiscal 2018, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce (the "2018 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 130 positions across various functions. The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $0.1 million will be paid out in cash through the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 
In December 2017, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce (the "2017 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 80 positions worldwide across various functions. The restructuring accrual has been fully settled in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
As part of this restructuring plan, the Company exited an office space leased by Spansion and recorded a reserve related to excess lease obligation for the building. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company signed a termination agreement with the building’s owner. The lease termination cost was approximately $19.0 million. The Company paid $4.7 million during the fiscal 2018 and paid the remaining $14.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018, stock-based compensation capitalized in inventory totaled $2.6 million and $2.5 million, respectively.
As of March 31, 2019, approximately 29.8 million stock options, or 16.0 million RSUs and PSUs, were available for grant as stock-based awards under the 2013 Stock Plan, the 2010 Equity Incentive Award Plan and the 2012 Incentive Award Plan. As of March 31, 2019, there were 7.9 million shares of stock available for issuance under the ESPP plan.
No options were granted during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018.
During the first quarter of 2019, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved the issuance of service-based and performance-based restricted stock units under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Program ("LTIP") to certain employees. The performance goals for the performance-based 2019 LTIP grants relate to non-GAAP operating margin and achievement of our customer experience plan milestones for fiscal 2019 and include a multiplier based on our total stockholder return relative to an index.
On February 19, 2019, the Company's Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.11 per share payable to holders of record of its common stock at the close of the business day on March 28, 2019. This cash dividend was paid on April 18, 2019 and totaled $40.1 million which was accrued for and shown as "Dividends payable" on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2019.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all of the financial covenants under all of its debt facilities.
On March 18, 2019, the Company repaid $25.0 million of the outstanding Term Loan B principal in addition to the scheduled quarterly principal payment of $1.3 million.
Pursuant to the merger with Spansion, Cypress assumed Spansion's 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes (the "Spansion Notes"). The Spansion Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company. The Spansion Notes will mature on September 1, 2020, unless earlier repurchased or converted, and bear interest of 2% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1. The Spansion Notes may be due and payable immediately upon certain events of default.
On June 23, 2016, the Company issued, at face value, $287.5 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2022 (the "2022 Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
In connection with the issuance of the 2022 Notes, the Company entered into capped call transactions with certain bank counterparties to reduce the risk of potential dilution of the Company’s common stock upon the exchange of the 2022 Notes. The capped call transactions have an initial strike price of approximately $13.49 and an initial cap price of approximately $15.27, in each case, subject to adjustment. The capped calls expire in January 2022.
On November 6, 2017, the Company, issued at face value, $150.0 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2023 (the "2023 Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
The Company has operating and finance leases for corporate offices, research and development facilities, and certain equipment. The Company's leases have remaining lease terms of 1 year to 8 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 5 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within the lease terms.
The Company generally warrants its products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one year, and that product warranty is generally limited to a refund of the original purchase price of the product or a replacement part. The Company estimates its warranty costs based upon its historical warranty claim experience. Warranty returns are recorded as an allowance for sales returns. The allowance for sales returns is reviewed quarterly to verify that it reflects the remaining obligations based on the anticipated returns over the balance of the obligation period.
The Company has entered into agreements with certain vendors that include "take or pay" terms. Take or pay terms obligate the Company to purchase a minimum required amount of materials or services or make specified payments in lieu of such purchase. The Company may not be able to consume minimum commitments under these take or pay terms, requiring payments to vendors, which may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s earnings.
The Company enters into multiple foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency risk resulting from fluctuations in Japanese yen (¥) and Euro (€) exchange rates. In addition, the Company entered into fixed-for-interest rate forward swap agreements and has designated these swaps as hedging instruments. The Company does not enter into derivative securities for speculative purposes. The Company’s hedging policy is designed to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on its operating results. Some foreign currency forward contracts are considered to be economic hedges that were not designated as hedging instruments while others were designated as cash flow hedges. Whether designated or undesignated as cash flow hedges or not, these forward contracts protect the Company against the variability of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from revenues, expenses and net asset or liability positions designated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The maximum original duration of any contract allowable under the Company’s hedging policy is thirteen months for foreign currency hedging contracts.
The Company enters into cash flow hedges to protect non-functional currency inventory purchases and certain other operational expenses, in addition to its ongoing program of cash flow hedges to protect its non-functional currency revenues against variability in cash flows due to foreign currency fluctuations. The Company’s foreign currency forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges generally have maturities between three and thirteen months. All hedging relationships are formally documented, and the hedges are designed to offset changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions at the inception of the hedge. The Company recognizes derivative instruments from hedging activities as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measures them at fair value on a monthly basis. The Company records changes in the intrinsic value of its cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, until the forecasted transaction occurs. Prior to the second quarter of 2018, interest charges or "forward points" on the forward contracts are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and were recorded in interest and other income, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the second quarter of 2018, the Company entered into cash flow hedges, in which interest charges or "forward points" on the forward contracts are included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness, and are recorded in the underlying hedged items in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. When the forecasted transaction occurs, the Company reclassifies the related gain or loss on the cash flow hedge to revenue or costs, depending on the risk hedged. In the event the underlying forecasted transaction does not occur, or it becomes probable that it will not occur, the Company will reclassify the gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income, net in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations at that time. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, the Company had a loss of $0.8 million and a gain of $0.9 million, which was related to cash flow hedges, recorded in other comprehensive income, respectively.
The Company evaluates hedge effectiveness at the inception of the hedge prospectively as well as retrospectively and records any ineffective portion of the hedge in other income, net in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
On January 3, 2018, the Company evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and designated these swaps as hedging instruments. Upon designation as cash flow hedge instruments, future changes in fair value of these swaps are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 
In October 2018, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements starting in July 2021 with two counterparties to swap future variable interest payments on existing debt for fixed interest payments; these agreements will expire in December 2024. The objective of the swaps was to effectively fix the future interest rate at the level currently available to avoid the uncertainty in financing cost for a portion of debt due to future interest rate fluctuations. The aggregate notional amount of these interest rate swaps was $300 million. The Company has evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and has designated these swaps as cash flow hedges of the debt with future changes in fair value of these swaps to be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company has recognized a loss in other comprehensive income of $7.1 million for these interest rate swaps. 
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and April 1, 2018, approximately 4.3 million and 2.5 million weighted average potentially dilutive shares underlying outstanding stock-based awards and convertible debt, respectively, were excluded in the computation of diluted net loss per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 
million of the valuation allowance attributable to certain U.S. deferred tax assets during 2018. Based on management’s assessment of the realizability of deferred tax assets, there was no change to the previously recorded valuation allowances during the quarter ending March 31, 2019.
Gross unrecognized tax benefits were $121.7 million and $121.9 million as of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018, respectively. As of March 31, 2019, and December 30, 2018, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the Company's effective tax rate totaled $66.3 million and $65.8 million, respectively.
The Company's policy is to classify interest expense and penalties, if any, as components of the income tax provision in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of March 31, 2019 and December 30, 2018, the amounts of accrued interest and penalties totaled $13.6 million and $13.0 million, respectively.
The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of solutions for embedded systems, from automotive, industrial, consumer electronics, and medical products. 
Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise for which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision-maker ("CODM"), or decision-making group, in making decisions on how to allocate resources and assess performance. The CODM is considered to be the Chief Executive Officer. 
The Company's segments are its MCD (Microcontroller and Connectivity Division) and MPD (Memory Products Division). 
The Company tracks its assets by physical location. Although management reviews asset information on a corporate level and allocates depreciation expense by segment, the Company’s CODM does not review asset information on a segment basis.
Outstanding accounts receivable from two of the Company's distributors accounted for 24.2% and 11.1% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of March 31, 2019. Outstanding accounts receivable from one of the Company's distributors accounted for 25.0% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of December 30, 2018.
Revenue from sales to two of the Company's distributors accounted for 16.9% and 15.4% of its consolidated revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019. No other distributors or customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company purchases from, or sells to (a) entities for which one of the Company's directors or executive officers serves as a director or (b) entities that are otherwise affiliated with one of the Company's directors or executive officers (collectively, "related parties").
As of March 31, 2019, and April 1, 2018, amounts due from these parties totaled $0.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively, and amounts due to these parties totaled $1.0 million and $8.9 million, respectively.
The information required by this item is included in Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
On April 1, 2019, we launched a joint venture in Hong Kong with SK hynix system ic Inc. ("SKHS"), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SK hynix Inc. ("SKH"), a South Korean company. The joint venture entity, SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh") is controlled by SKHS. We contributed our NAND flash memory business to the joint venture. NAND is a commoditized product line that has traditionally experienced volatile sales results with low gross margins. Upon launch, SkyHigh entered into a wafer supply agreement with SKH, and back-end manufacturing and transition services agreements with Cypress. 
