The information required by this item is included in Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful. 
On April 1, 2019, we launched a joint venture in Hong Kong with SK hynix system ic Inc. ("SKHS"), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SK hynix Inc. ("SKH"), a South Korean company. The joint venture entity, SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh") is controlled by SKHS. We contributed our NAND flash memory business to the joint venture. NAND is a commoditized product line that has traditionally experienced volatile sales results with low gross margins. Upon launch, SkyHigh entered into a wafer supply agreement with SKH, and back-end manufacturing and transition services agreements with Cypress. 
We have invested in certain privately-held companies. There can be no guarantee that such businesses will perform as initially expected, launch new products and solutions as initially expected, or gain or maintain market acceptance. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones. Consequently, we recognized an impairment charge of $51.2 million related to our investment in Enovix, reducing its carrying value on our books to zero. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in another equity investee, Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca"), was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to its estimated fair value as of the end of fiscal 2018. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
