Fiscal Years
Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Cypress" or the "Company") reports on a fiscal-year basis. The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year. Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 each contain(ed) 52 weeks. The third quarter of fiscal 2019 ended on September 29, 2019 and the third quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on September 30, 2018.
Basis of Presentation
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
On September 29, 2019, the Company acquired the minority shareholders' noncontrolling interest in AgigA Tech, Inc. ("AgigA") for total cash consideration of $3.9 million, making AgigA a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Substantially all of such consideration was paid in October 2019. Prior to this acquisition, Cypress held 94.4% of the outstanding equity of AgigA. The difference between the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest at the date of the acquisition and the total consideration was recorded as a decrease in "Additional paid-in capital" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company will, consistent with the presentation in prior periods, continue to report AgigA's financial results under its Memory Products Division.
Pending Acquisition by Infineon
On June 3, 2019, the Company entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Infineon Technologies AG, a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft) organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany ("Infineon") and IFX Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon ("Merger Sub"). Subject to approval by Cypress's stockholders and the relevant regulatory bodies as well as other customary closing conditions, the Merger Agreement provides for Merger Sub to merge with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
Refer to Note 2 Merger Agreement for further details. 
The Company applies the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 842 to individual leases of assets. When the Company receives substantially all of the economic benefits from and directs the use of specified property, plant and equipment, transactions give rise to leases.
The Company’s classes of assets include real estate leases and equipment leases.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities in the Company's consolidated balance sheets. ROU assets represent the Company's right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company's obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Finance leases are included in property and equipment, current portion of long-term debt, revolving credit facility and long-term portion of debt in the Company's consolidated balance sheets. 
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets. Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable. These elections are applied consistently for all leases.
The Company subleases certain portions of buildings and land subject to operating leases. The terms and conditions of the subleases are commensurate with the terms and conditions within the original operating leases. The terms of the subleases range from one to eight years, payments are fixed within the contracts, and there are no residual value guarantees or other restrictions or covenants in the leases. 
When discount rates implicit in leases cannot be readily determined, the Company uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to perform lease classification tests on lease components and to measure lease liabilities and ROU assets. The incremental borrowing rate used by the Company was based on baseline rates and adjusted by the credit spreads commensurate with the Company’s secured borrowing rate, over a similar term. At each reporting period when there is a new lease initiated, the rates established for that quarter will be used. 
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases (ASC Topic 842)." The standard introduces new requirements to increase transparency and comparability among organizations for leasing transactions for both lessees and lessors. ASU No. 2016-02 requires a lessee to record a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and a lease liability for all leases with terms longer than 12 months. These leases will be either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition. 
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-11, which provided an alternative modified retrospective transition method. Under this method, the cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings is recognized on the date of adoption (December 31, 2018). The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, as of December 31, 2018 and applied the alternative modified retrospective transition method requiring application of the new guidance to all leases existing at, or entered into on or after, the date of adoption, i.e. December 31, 2018.
•whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases
•the lease classification for any expired or existing leases
•treatment of initial direct costs relating to any existing leases 
As a result of adoption of this standard, and election of the transition practical expedients, the Company recognized ROU assets and lease liabilities for those leases classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 840 that continued to be classified as operating leases under ASC Topic 842 at the date of initial application. Leases classified as capital leases under ASC 840 are classified as ‘finance leases’ under this new standard. 
On June 3, 2019, Infineon, Merger Sub and the Company entered into the Merger Agreement, which provides for Merger Sub, upon the closing of the transaction, to merge with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon. 
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger (the "Effective Time"), each share of common stock of Cypress ("Cypress Common Stock") that is issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than shares of Cypress Common Stock (a) owned by Infineon, Merger Sub or any other direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon, (b) owned by Cypress, including any shares held in treasury by Cypress, 
As of October 30, 2019, stockholder approval for the Merger has been obtained, the applicable HSR Waiting Period has been terminated, and the Merger has received clearance from the European Commission and from antitrust regulators in the Philippines and South Korea. There can be no assurance, however, that the other conditions to the completion of the Merger will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all.
As of September 29, 2019, the Company has not accrued for certain bankers fees, employee retention cash bonuses and expense relating to the acceleration of stock-based compensation awards as these expenditures are contingent on the completion of the Merger. Bankers fees of approximately $63.0 million are contingently payable upon the completion of the proposed Merger with Infineon. If the proposed Merger does not close, under circumstances in which the Company receives a reverse break-up fee, bankers fees of approximately $22.2 million are contingently payable by Cypress. Additionally, employee retention cash bonus commitments in the aggregate amount of $9.7 million were made to certain employees during the third quarter of fiscal 2019, 50% of which will be payable upon the closing of the Merger, and the remaining 50% of which will potentially be payable six months after the closing of the Merger.
The following tables present the Company's revenue disaggregated by segment, end use, revenue type and geographical locations. Revenue for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 reflects divestment of the Company's NAND business to SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh"), a newly formed joint venture, which was completed on April 1, 2019. 
Accounts Receivable, Net 
Inventories
Other Current Assets
Other Long-term Assets
 Other Current Liabilities
Other Long-term Liabilities
Sale of NAND business
On April 1, 2019, the Company closed the transfer of its NAND business to a newly-formed joint venture between the Company and SK hynix system ic Inc. ("SKHS"). The joint venture entity is called SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh") and its headquarters are in Hong Kong, China. SkyHigh is 60-percent-owned by SKHS and 40-percent-owned by Cypress. The Company paid $2.4 million in cash as its capital contribution in SkyHigh upon close of the transaction. Additionally, Cypress is providing certain transition and back-end manufacturing services to SkyHigh. 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company allocated $65.7 million of goodwill previously recorded in the MPD segment to the NAND business being divested. The allocation was based on the relative estimated enterprise value of the NAND business and that of the MPD business. The intangible assets attributable to the NAND business acquired as part of a previous acquisition were $10.9 million. Based on an analysis carried out in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $76.6 million which related to the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to the NAND business.
Inventories related to the NAND business were classified as held-for-sale assets at December 30, 2018 in the amount of $13.5 million. The inventories remaining as of April 1, 2019 were purchased by SkyHigh upon the closing of the transaction for $10.2 
During the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019, the Company recognized a net gain of $1.9 million and an incremental loss of $1.7 million, respectively, mainly attributed to contingent consideration related to inventories, offset by adjustments in the carrying value of certain assets and reserves recorded for estimated costs of transition services. 
Deca continues to be in the process of developing and testing a fan-out wafer level packaging technology. Deca’s estimated enterprise value is sensitive to its ability to achieve key product development and testing milestones. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company determined that its investment in Deca was other-than-temporarily impaired and recognized a charge of $41.5 million in order to write down the carrying amount of the investment in Deca to the estimated fair value as of the end of fiscal 2018. 
On October 1, 2019 Deca reached a definitive agreement with nepes Corporation (“nepes”) to sell Deca’s Philippines manufacturing facility to nepes, subject to completion of regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. As part of the agreement, nepes has licensed certain Deca technologies, and nepes will purchase a limited number of Deca’s shares from certain existing shareholders which may include Cypress. The agreement provides for milestone-based payments from nepes to Deca both for the Philippines manufacturing facility purchase and the technology license, which milestones are currently expected to be achieved in 2020. Upon closing the agreement with nepes, Deca's remaining assets will primarily consist of intellectual property.
•any inability of Deca to close its agreement with nepes; 
•any inability of Deca to raise sufficient funding, if needed, for continuing its operations;
The Company may be required to record further impairments resulting in partial or full write down of the carrying value of its investment in Deca if any of the conditions described above were to materialize.
The Company’s carrying value in Deca was $25.6 million and $65.1 million as of September 29, 2019 and December 30, 2018, respectively. The Company held 52.5% of Deca's outstanding voting shares as of September 29, 2019 and December 30, 2018.
The Company’s carrying value in SkyHigh was $4.6 million as of September 29, 2019.
The Company did not have any material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs as of September 29, 2019 and December 30, 2018. 
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
Certain of the Company’s assets, including intangible assets, goodwill and assets held for sale, are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis using Level 3 inputs if impairment is indicated. 
Fair Value of Long-Term Debt
As of September 29, 2019, the carrying value of the Company's senior secured credit facility was $397.0 million (See Note 11). The carrying value of the Company's senior secured credit facility approximates its fair value since it bears an interest rate that is comparable to rates on similar credit facilities and is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The Company's 2% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2020 assumed as part of the Company's merger with Spansion Inc. ("Spansion") are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and are categorized as Level 2. The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of September 29, 2019 were $12.0 million and $57.4 million, respectively. The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of December 30, 2018 were $12.0 million and $30.9 million, respectively. See Note 11 for further details.
The Company’s 4.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs. The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of September 29, 2019 were $287.5 million and $498.8 million, respectively. The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of December 30, 2018 were $287.5 million and $336.6 million, respectively. See Note 11 for further details.
The Company's 2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 are traded in the secondary market and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs. The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of September 29, 2019 were $150.0 million and $178.5 million, respectively. The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of December 30, 2018 were $150.0 million and $140.6 million, respectively. See Note 11 for further details.
In fiscal 2018, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce (the "2018 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 130 positions across various functions. The restructuring activities under this plan were completed and the related accruals were fully settled in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. 
In December 2017, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce (the "2017 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 80 positions worldwide across various functions. The restructuring activities under this plan were completed and the related accrual was fully settled in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In March 2015, the Company began implementation of cost reduction and restructuring activities in connection with its merger with Spansion. The restructuring activities under this plan were completed and the related accrual was fully settled in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. 
Summary of Restructuring Costs
Roll-Forward of the Restructuring Reserves
As of September 29, 2019 and December 30, 2018, stock-based compensation capitalized in inventory was $3.6 million and $2.5 million, respectively.
As of September 29, 2019, approximately 29.4 million stock options, or 15.8 million RSUs and PSUs, were available for grant as stock-based awards under the 2013 Stock Plan, the 2010 Equity Incentive Award Plan and the 2012 Incentive Award Plan.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, if the proposed Merger with Infineon is completed, each RSU, PSU, and employee or director stock option outstanding at the closing will be cancelled and converted into a right to receive an amount of cash specified in the Merger Agreement (without interest and subject to any applicable tax withholding). Such cash amounts will be payable promptly after the closing in respect of 100% of stock options (whether vested or unvested), 100% of director RSUs, and 50% of most other RSUs outstanding at the closing. Cash amounts for the remaining RSUs and all PSUs outstanding at the closing will generally be payable, subject to continued employment with the surviving corporation, according to the Cypress award’s original vesting schedule (subject to acceleration in certain circumstances). These provisions from the Merger Agreement did not have any impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019.
In addition, the Merger Agreement provides that no new offering periods under the ESPP will commence during the period between the date of the Merger Agreement and the Effective Time and the ESPP will terminate as of immediately prior to the Effective Time. Accordingly, the Company suspended the ESPP for all participants following the June 28, 2019, share purchase. 
Stock Options
No options were granted during the three or nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
2019 Long-Term Incentive Program
During the first quarter of 2019, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved the issuance of service-based and performance-based restricted stock units under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Program ("LTIP") to certain 
employees. The performance goals for the performance-based 2019 LTIP grants relate to non-GAAP operating margin and customer experience plan milestones for fiscal 2019 and include a multiplier based on the Company's total stockholder return relative to an index.
Dividend
On August 2, 2019, the Company's Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.11 per share payable to holders of record of its common stock at the close of the business day on September 26, 2019. This cash dividend was paid on October 17, 2019 and totaled $40.7 million, which was accrued for and shown as "Dividends payable" on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 29, 2019.
As of September 29, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all of the financial covenants under all of its debt facilities.
On March 18, 2019, the Company repaid $25.0 million of the outstanding Term Loan B principal. The Company also paid the scheduled quarterly principal payments of $1.3 million per quarter during each of the first, second and third quarters of fiscal 2019. 
On July 31, 2019, the Company amended its existing revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") thereby increasing the available amount from $540 million to $700 million and extending its maturity from March 12, 2020 to January 31, 2021. The Company may, at its sole discretion, extend the maturity for another six months to July 31, 2021. The financial covenants were amended to increase the maximum total leverage ratio from 3.75 to 4.0. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the amended Revolving Credit Facility, at the Effective Time, the Merger will trigger the change of control provision of the Revolving Credit Facility causing the debt to become payable immediately. The Company borrowed $447 million under the amended Revolving Credit Facility and repaid the entire outstanding Term Loan B principal balance of approximately $448 million as of July 31, 2019, resulting in an extinguishment of Term Loan B, which was scheduled to mature on July 5, 2021. As a result, the Company recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $6.4 million in connection with the write-off of unamortized debt discount and issuance costs, which was recorded in "Interest expense" in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. On August 30, 2019, the Company repaid $50.0 million of the outstanding amended Revolving Credit Facility. 
Interest expense related to the contractual interest expense, the amortization of the debt issuance costs and the amortization of debt discounts was $5.0 million and $18.5 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019. Interest expense related to the contractual interest expense, the amortization of the debt issuance costs and the amortization of debt discounts was $8.7 million and $27.6 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
As of September 29, 2019 and December 30, 2018, the aggregate principal amount of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility, all of which related to the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan B, respectively, were $397.0 million and $476.3 million, respectively. On September 30, 2019, the Company repaid $50.0 million of the outstanding Revolving Credit Facility and reported such amount as a component of current liabilities as of the end of the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2019. 
2% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2020
Pursuant to the merger with Spansion, Cypress assumed Spansion's 2% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2020 (the "Spansion Notes"). The Spansion Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company. The Spansion Notes will mature on September 1, 2020, unless earlier repurchased or converted, and bear interest of 2% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1. The Spansion Notes may be due and payable immediately upon certain events of default. The net carrying amount related to the Spansion Notes was reported as a component of current liabilities as of the end of the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2019.
Prior to June 1, 2020, the Spansion Notes are exchangeable only under certain specified circumstances as described in the Spansion Notes Indenture. One such circumstance is that the Spansion Notes will be exchangeable during any fiscal quarter (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the closing sale price of the Company's common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than 130% of the exchange price on each applicable trading day. Such condition was met as of the last trading day of each of the Company's fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2019 and September 29, 2019 and, accordingly, the Spansion Notes were and will be exchangeable at the option of their holders during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019. During the three months ended September 29, 2019, the Company received exchange notices representing an immaterial principal amount of Spansion Notes from holders. The Company may pay or deliver, cash, shares or any combination of cash and shares, at its election to settle the exchanges.
On June 23, 2016, the Company issued, at face value, $287.5 million of 4.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 (the "2022 Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
The 2022 Notes are convertible at an initial conversion rate of 74.1372 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2022 Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $13.49 per share) subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events, including anti-dilutive issuances and, in certain circumstances, a make-whole adjustment upon a fundamental change. Pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing the 2022 Notes (the "2022 Notes Indenture"), a fundamental change includes a change in control, liquidation, consolidation, or merger of the Company or a delisting of the Company's stock, (see "—Effect of Proposed Merger on the Notes," below).
Prior to October 15, 2021, the 2022 Notes are convertible only under certain specified circumstances as described in the 2022 Notes Indenture. One such circumstance is that the 2022 Notes will be convertible during any fiscal quarter (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day. Such condition was met as of the last trading day of each of the Company's fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2019 and September 29, 2019 and, accordingly, the 2022 Notes were and will be convertible at the option of their holders during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019. During the three months ended September 29, 2019, the Company received conversion notices representing an immaterial principal amount of 2022 Notes from holders. Because the Company may elect to settle the 2022 Notes in cash, shares, or a combination of both, the Company continued to classify the 2022 Notes as long-term debt on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 29, 2019.
In connection with the issuance of the 2022 Notes, the Company entered into capped call transactions with certain bank counterparties to reduce the risk of potential dilution of the Company’s common stock upon the conversion of the 2022 Notes. The capped call transactions have an initial strike price of approximately $13.49 and an initial cap price of approximately $15.27, in each case, subject to adjustment. The capped calls expire in January 2022.
2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023
On November 6, 2017, the Company, issued at face value, $150.0 million of 2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (the "2023 Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
The 2023 Notes are convertible at an initial conversion rate of 46.7099 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2023 Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $21.41 per share) subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events, including anti-dilutive issuances and, in certain circumstances, a make-whole adjustment upon a fundamental change. A fundamental change includes a change in control, delisting of the Company’s stock, and liquidation, consolidation, or merger of the Company (see "—Effect of Proposed Merger on the Notes," below). Prior to November 1, 2022, the 2023 Notes are convertible only under certain specified circumstances as described in the indenture under which the 2023 Notes were issued.
For more information on the Spansion Notes, the 2022 Notes, and the 2023 Notes, see Note 15 Debt of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
The proposed Merger will constitute a “fundamental change” (as defined in each of the indentures governing the Spansion Notes, 2022 Notes and 2023 Notes). As a result, holders of the Spansion Notes, 2022 Notes and 2023 Notes will be entitled to either (a) convert or exchange such holder's notes based on the applicable conversion or exchange rate for such notes in effect on the applicable exchange date or conversion date (as increased by additional make-whole shares to the extent such notes are converted after the Effective Time and prior to the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date (as defined in the applicable indenture)) or (b) require the surviving corporation to repurchase that holder's notes (or any portion of principal amount thereof that is equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of the applicable series for cash on a date specified by the surviving corporation in accordance with the applicable indenture at a purchase price of 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date (as defined in the 
applicable indenture). Alternatively, holders of Cypress's outstanding exchangeable or convertible notes can continue to hold such notes, which, following the Effective Time, will be convertible or exchangeable only into an amount of cash equal to
Future Debt Payments
The Company has operating and finance leases for corporate offices, research and development facilities, and certain equipment. The Company's leases have remaining lease terms of 1 year to 8 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 5 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within the lease terms.
Product Warranties
The Company has entered into agreements with certain vendors that include "take or pay" terms. Take or pay terms obligate the Company to purchase a minimum required amount of materials or services or make specified payments in lieu of such purchase. The Company may not be able to consume minimum commitments under these take or pay terms, requiring payments to vendors, which may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s earnings.
Litigation and Asserted Claims
Indemnification Obligations
The Company enters into multiple foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency risk resulting from fluctuations in Japanese yen (¥) and Euro (€) exchange rates. In addition, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements and has designated these swaps as hedging instruments. The Company does not enter into derivative securities for speculative purposes. The Company’s hedging policy is designed to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on its operating results. Some foreign currency forward contracts are considered to be economic hedges that were not designated as hedging instruments while others were designated as cash flow hedges. Whether designated or undesignated as cash flow hedges or not, these forward contracts protect the Company against the variability of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from revenues, expenses and net asset or liability positions designated in 
currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The maximum original duration of any contract allowable under the Company’s hedging policy is thirteen months for foreign currency hedging contracts.
The Company enters into cash flow hedges to protect non-functional currency inventory purchases and certain other operational expenses, in addition to its ongoing program of cash flow hedges to protect its non-functional currency revenues against variability in cash flows due to foreign currency fluctuations. The Company’s foreign currency forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges generally have maturities between three and thirteen months. All hedging relationships are formally documented, and the hedges are designed to offset changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions at the inception of the hedge. The Company recognizes derivative instruments from hedging activities as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measures them at fair value on a monthly basis. The Company records changes in the intrinsic value of its cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, until the forecasted transaction occurs. Prior to the second quarter of 2018, interest charges or "forward points" on the forward contracts were excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and were recorded in interest and other income, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Commencing in the second quarter of 2018, interest charges or "forward points" on newly entered forward contracts are included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness, and are recorded in the underlying hedged items in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. When the forecasted transaction occurs, the Company reclassifies the related gain or loss on the cash flow hedge to revenue or costs, depending on the risk hedged. In the event the underlying forecasted transaction does not occur, or it becomes probable that it will not occur, the Company will reclassify the gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income, net in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations at that time. For the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the Company had a net loss of $0.5 million and a net loss of $1.7 million, which was related to foreign currency forward contracts, recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), respectively. As of September 29, 2019 and December 30, 2018, the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to foreign currency forward contracts was a loss of $38,500 and a gain of $0.4 million, respectively.
In December 2017, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements starting April 2018 with two counterparties to swap future variable interest payments on certain debt for fixed interest payments; these agreements will expire in July 2021. The objective of the swaps was to effectively fix the interest rate at current levels without having to refinance the outstanding term loan, thereby avoiding the incurrence of transaction costs. The aggregate notional amount of these interest rate swaps is $300 million. The interest rate on the variable debt was fixed in December 2017 and became effective in April 2018.
On January 3, 2018, the Company evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and designated these swaps as hedging instruments. Upon designation as cash flow hedge instruments, future changes in fair value of these swaps are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 
In October 2018, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements starting in July 2021 with two counterparties to swap future variable interest payments on existing debt for fixed interest payments; these agreements will expire in December 2024. The objective of the swaps was to effectively fix the future interest rate at the level currently available to avoid the uncertainty in financing cost for a portion of debt due to future interest rate fluctuations. The aggregate notional amount of these interest rate swaps is $300 million. The Company has evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and has designated these swaps as cash flow hedges of the debt with future changes in fair value of these swaps to be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
For the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the Company had a net loss of $17.5 million and a net gain of $5.9 million, which was related to interest rate swap, recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), respectively. As of September 29, 2019 and December 30, 2018, the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to these interest rate swaps was a loss of $18.8 million and a loss of $1.3 million, respectively.
For the three months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, approximately 14,000 and 2.8 million weighted average potentially dilutive shares underlying outstanding stock-based awards and convertible debt, respectively, were excluded in the computation of diluted net income per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. For the nine months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, approximately 1.4 million and 2.7 million weighted average potentially dilutive shares underlying outstanding stock-based awards and convertible debt, respectively, were excluded in the computation of diluted net income per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
on management’s assessment of the realizability of deferred tax assets, there was no change to the previously recorded valuation allowances during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019.
Unrecognized Tax Benefits
Gross unrecognized tax benefits were $131.9 million and $121.9 million as of September 29, 2019 and December 30, 2018, respectively. As of September 29, 2019, and December 30, 2018, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the Company's effective tax rate totaled $75.6 million and $65.8 million, respectively.
The Company classifies interest and penalties as components of the income tax provision in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of September 29, 2019 and December 30, 2018, the amounts of accrued interest and penalties totaled $13.8 million and $13.0 million, respectively.
The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of solutions for embedded systems from the IoT, automotive, industrial, consumer electronics, and medical areas. 
The Company's segments are MCD (Microcontroller and Connectivity Division) and MPD (Memory Products Division). 
The Company tracks its assets by physical location. Although management reviews asset information on a corporate level and allocates depreciation expense by segment, the Company’s CODM does not review asset information on a segment basis.
Customer Information
Outstanding accounts receivable from two of the Company's distributors accounted for 15.7% and 13.4% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of September 29, 2019. Outstanding accounts receivable from one of the Company's distributors accounted for 25.0% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of December 30, 2018.
Revenue from sales to two of the Company's distributors accounted for 18.0% and 10.2% of its consolidated revenues for the three months ended September 29, 2019. Revenue from sales to two of the Company's distributors accounted for 16.6% and 14.0% of its consolidated revenues for the nine months ended September 29, 2019. No other distributors or end-customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated revenues for the three months or nine months ended September 29, 2019.
Revenue from sales to two of the Company’s distributors accounted for 17.7% and 15.1% of its consolidated revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018. Revenue from sales to two of the Company’s distributors accounted for 18.6% and 13.8% of its consolidated revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. No other distributors or end-customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated revenues for the three months or nine months ended September 30, 2018.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company purchases from, or sells to (a) entities for which one of the Company's directors or executive officers serves as a director or (b) entities that are otherwise affiliated with one of the Company's directors or executive officers (collectively, "related parties").
As of September 29, 2019, and September 30, 2018, amounts due from these parties totaled $4.8 million and $65,000, respectively, and amounts due to these parties totaled $1.0 million and $2.0 million, respectively.
The information required by this item is included in Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
•parties with whom we otherwise may have sought to establish business relationships may seek alternative relationships with third parties instead of us;
Regulatory and governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of the required regulatory clearances and approvals described above. In that case, lengthy negotiations may ensue among these regulatory or governmental entities, Infineon and us, which could delay the closing (and any receipt of Merger consideration) and increase the risk that the merger might not be completed.
On April 1, 2019, we launched a joint venture in Hong Kong with SK hynix system ic Inc. ("SKHS"), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SK hynix Inc. ("SKH"), a South Korean company. The joint venture entity, SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh"), is controlled by SKHS. We contributed our NAND flash memory business to the joint venture. NAND is a commoditized product line that has traditionally experienced volatile sales results with low gross margins. Upon launch, SkyHigh entered into a wafer supply agreement with SKH, and back-end manufacturing and transition services agreements with Cypress. 
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones. Consequently, we recognized an impairment charge of $51.2 million related to our investment in Enovix, reducing the carrying value of such investment on our books to zero. 
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca") was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to $65.1 million (the estimated fair value of our investment as of the end of fiscal 2018). 
•any inability of Deca to close its agreement with nepes; 
•any inability of Deca to raise sufficient funding, if needed, for continuing its operations;
The exchange or conversion, as applicable, of some or all of Spansion's 2% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2020 (the "Spansion Notes") or our 4.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 (the "2022 Notes") could dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders and negatively impact our financial position. The Spansion Notes and the 2022 Notes are each exchangeable or convertible, as applicable, into shares of the Company’s common stock at the election of the holders of such series of notes upon the occurrence of certain conditions specified in the indenture governing such series of notes, including during any fiscal quarter (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of the Company’s common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the exchange or conversion price of the applicable series of notes on each applicable trading day (the "sales price condition"). Any exchange or conversion, as applicable, of the Spansion Notes or 2022 Notes may be settled in cash, shares of the Company’s common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the Company’s common stock, in each case at our election.
The sales price condition for the Spansion Notes and the 2022 Notes was met on the last trading day of the Company’s fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2019 and, as a result, holders of the Spansion Notes and the 2022 Notes, as applicable, may, at their option, exchange or convert, as applicable, their notes during the Company’s fiscal quarter ending December 29, 2019. If we elect to settle all or any portion of such exchanges or conversions of Spansion Notes or 2022 Notes, as applicable, in shares of our common stock, any sales in the public market of such common stock issued upon such exchange or conversion, as applicable, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Additionally, if we elect to settle all or any portion of such exchanges or conversions of Spansion Notes or 2022 Notes, as applicable, in cash, such payments of cash would reduce our available cash and negatively impact our liquidity.
Borrowings under our revolving credit facility (our "Revolving Credit Facility") may, at our option, bear interest at a floating rate based on the London Inter-bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"). We also have entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements to manage our exposure to fluctuations in the LIBOR benchmark interest rate. As described in Note 14 (Foreign Currency and Interest Rate Derivatives) to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I of this Quarterly Report, we pay the counterparties to these swap agreements a fixed rate in return for a LIBOR-based floating rate, which we use to fund payments under our Revolving Credit Facility. The aggregate notional amount of these swap agreements is $300 million.
In July 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority (the "FCA"), which regulates LIBOR, announced that after December 31, 2021, it would no longer compel banks to submit the rates required to calculate LIBOR. We cannot predict the effect of the FCA’s decision not to sustain LIBOR or, if changes ultimately are made to LIBOR, the effect those changes may have on the interest we pay on our Revolving Credit Facility and the payments we receive under our interest rate forward swap agreements.
