fls.txt



item1.txt
j2 Global recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been provided, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collection is probable.
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No. Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate and governmental debt securities.
j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
j2 Global complies with the provisions of FASB ASC Topic No. 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements.
As of March 31, 2018, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.
The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment.
j2 Global measures the contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
The Company may use various valuation techniques depending on the terms and conditions of the contingent consideration including a Monte-Carlo simulation.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.


item2.txt
Through our Cloud Services segment, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties.
Our Cloud Services segment generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our Digital Media segment generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.
Our Cloud Services segment is driven primarily by subscription revenues that are relatively higher margin, stable and predictable from quarter to quarter with some seasonal weakness in the fourth quarter.
The Cloud Services segment also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period.
Our Digital Media segment is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates, except for changes relating to our adoption of authoritative guidance associated with revenue recognition.
The main focus of our Cloud Services offerings is to reduce or eliminate costs, increase sales and enhance productivity, mobility, business continuity and security of our customers as the technologies and devices they use evolve over time.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.


item4.txt
Item 6.Exhibits


part2.txt
Item 1A.


