item1.txt
The reserves for the Company’s Cloud Services business are typically driven by the volume of credit card declines and past due invoices and are based on historical experience as well as an evaluation of current market conditions.
J2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
The Company determines whether revenue should be reported on a gross or net basis by assessing whether the Company is acting as the principal or an agent in the transaction.
As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to J2 Global.
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No. 320, Investments - Debt Securities (“ASC 320”).
Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income.
Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in other comprehensive income.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
The Company accounts for its investments in equity securities in accordance with ASC Topic No. 321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
Under ASC Topic 323, Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures, an investor that holds investments that qualify for specialized industry accounting for investment companies in accordance with ASC 946 should record its share of the earnings or losses, realized or unrealized, as reported by its equity method investees in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV.
If the Company becomes aware of a significant decline in value that is other-than-temporary, the loss will be recorded in the period in which the Company identifies the decline.
The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment.
Revenues under such agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the service.


item2.txt
Assuming a stable or improving economic environment, and, subject to our risk factors, we expect the revenue and profits in our Digital Media business to improve over the next several quarters as we integrate our recent acquisitions and over the longer term as advertising transactions continue to shift from offline to online.
Our revenues consist of revenues from our Cloud Services business and from our Digital Media business.
Digital Media revenues primarily consist of advertising revenues, subscriptions earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, certain data products or services to customers, fees paid for generating business leads, and licensing and sale of editorial content and trademarks.
Our revenues in 2019 have increased over the comparable three and nine month periods of 2018 primarily due to a combination of acquisitions and organic growth within both the Digital Media and Cloud Services businesses.
Our sales and marketing costs consist primarily of internet-based advertising, sales and marketing, personnel costs and other business development-related expenses.
Our internet-based advertising relationships consist primarily of fixed cost and performance-based (cost-per-impression, cost-per-click and cost-per-acquisition) advertising relationships with an array of online service providers.
Advertising cost for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $40.6 million (primarily consists of $28.3 million of third-party advertising costs and $11.3 million of personnel costs) compared to 2018 of $36.3 million (primarily consists of $24.4 million of third-party advertising costs and $10.2 million of personnel costs).


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and borrowings under our Credit Facility that bear variable market interest rates.
Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short maturities of these instruments.


item4.txt
Item 5.Other Information


part2.txt
Effective February 15, 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 20, 2020.
In August 2019, the Company acquired 197,870 shares of J2 Global common stock in connection with the 2012 Program and subsequently retired the shares in the same month.


