ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. (“Maxim Integrated” or the “Company” and also referred to as “we,” “our” or “us”) disclaims any duty to and undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information relating to existing conditions, future events or otherwise or to release publicly the results of any future revisions it may make to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by federal securities laws. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review future reports and documents that the Company files with or furnishes to the SEC from time to time, such as its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.



Overview of Business



Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. (“Maxim Integrated” or the “Company” and also referred to as “we,” “our” or “us”) designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of linear and mixed-signal integrated circuits, commonly referred to as analog circuits, for a large number of customers in diverse geographical locations. The analog market is fragmented and characterized by many diverse applications, a great number of product variations and, with respect to many circuit types, relatively long product life cycles. We are a global company with a wafer manufacturing facility in the U.S., test facilities in the Philippines and Thailand, and sales and circuit design offices around the world. We also utilize third parties for manufacturing and assembly of our products. 



The Linear and Mixed-Signal Analog Integrated Circuit Market



All electronic signals generally fall into one of two categories, linear or digital. Linear (or analog) signals represent real world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound or speed, and are continuously variable over a wide range of values. Digital signals represent the “ones” and “zeros” of binary arithmetic and are either on or off.





•digital devices, such as memories and microprocessors that operate primarily in the digital domain;



•linear devices, such as amplifiers, references, analog multiplexers and switches that operate primarily in the analog domain; and



•mixed-signal devices such as data converter devices that combine linear and digital functions on the same integrated circuit and interface between the analog and digital domains.



Our strategy has been to target both the linear and mixed-signal markets, often collectively referred to as the analog market. However, some of our products are exclusively or principally digital. While our focus continues to be on the linear and mixed-signal market, our capabilities in the digital domain enable development of new mixed-signal and other products with highly sophisticated digital characteristics.



At the beginning of fiscal year 2020, we combined our Computing Major End-Market category with our Communications and Data Center Major End-Market category. Our former Computing Major End-Market category focused on Desktop Computers, Notebook Computers, and Peripherals and Other Computer markets. 









CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES



The methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has defined the most critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations, and that require us to make our most difficult and subjective accounting judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our most critical accounting policies include revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of net revenues; valuation of inventories, which impacts costs of goods sold and gross margins; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets, which impacts impairment of long-lived assets; assessment of recoverability of intangible assets and goodwill, which impacts impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; accounting for income taxes, which impacts the income tax provision; and assessment of litigation and contingencies, which impacts charges recorded in cost of goods 





sold, selling, general and administrative expenses and income taxes. These policies and the estimates and judgments involved are discussed further in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2019. We have other significant accounting policies that either do not generally require estimates and judgments that are as difficult or subjective, or it is less likely that such accounting policies would have a material impact on our reported results of operations for a given period. 



Except for the accounting policies and estimates outlined under Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements - Note 2, there have been no material changes during the three months ended September 28, 2019 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2019. 





RESULTS OF OPERATIONS











Net Revenues



Net revenues were $533.0 million and $638.5 million for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively. Revenue from industrial products was down by 21% due to lower shipments in control and automation and automatic test equipment products. Revenue from communication and data center products was down by 25% due to lower shipments in network and data communications, data center and other communications products. These results include net revenues for the three months ended September 29, 2018 that align with our revised end-market categories. 



During the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, approximately 90% and 89% of net revenues, respectively, were derived from customers outside of the United States. While less than 1.0% of our sales are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate our risks on firm commitments and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on our revenue and results of operations for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 was immaterial.





Gross Margin 



Our gross margin percentages were 64.4% and 67.4% for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively. Our gross margin decreased by 3.0 percentage points, primarily due to lower revenues.



Research and Development



Research and development expenses were $109.0 million and $112.7 million for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively, which represented 20.4% and 17.7% of net revenues for each respective period. The $3.7 million decrease was due to lower salaries and related personnel costs. 



Selling, General and Administrative



Selling, general and administrative expenses were $76.1 million and $81.5 million for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, respectively, which represented 14.3% and 12.8% of net revenues for each respective period. The $5.4 million decrease was due to lower salaries and related personnel costs, and lower depreciation expense.



Provision for Income Taxes



In the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $17.7 million and $36.2 million, respectively. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 was 11.2% and 15.5%, respectively.



The Company’s federal statutory tax rate is 21%. The Company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to earnings of foreign subsidiaries, generated primarily by the Company's international operations managed in Ireland, that were taxed at lower rates, partially offset by U.S. tax expense related to Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income.



BACKLOG



As of September 28, 2019 and June 29, 2019, our current quarter backlog was approximately $401.8 million and $391.3 million respectively. In backlog, we include orders with customer request dates within the next three months. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, these orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to customers. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog is not a reliable measure of future revenues. All backlog numbers have been adjusted for estimated future distribution ship and debit pricing adjustments.



FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



Financial Condition







Operating activities



Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain assets and liabilities.



Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $65.9 million for the three months ended September 28, 2019 compared with the three months ended September 29, 2018 due to lower net income, partially offset by changes in working capital.





Investing activities



Investing cash flows consist primarily of net investment purchases and maturities, and capital expenditures. 



Cash provided by investing activities decreased by $74.6 million for the three months ended September 28, 2019 compared with the three months ended September 29, 2018. The decrease was due to lower proceeds from maturity of available-for-sale securities and lower purchases of available-for-sale securities. 



Financing activities



Financing cash flows consist primarily of debt issuance, repurchases of common stock, and payment of dividends to stockholders.



Cash used in financing activities decreased by $23.0 million for the three months ended September 28, 2019 compared with the three months ended September 29, 2018 due to lower share repurchases. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Our primary source of liquidity is our cash flows from operating activities resulting from net income and management of working capital.



As of September 28, 2019, our available funds consisted of $1.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. 



On October 30, 2018, we were authorized to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of the Company's common stock. During the three months ended September 28, 2019, we repurchased an aggregate of $93.6 million of the Company's common stock.



During the three months ended September 28, 2019, we paid cash dividends of $0.48 per common share totaling $130.2 million. 



We anticipate that the available funds and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet cash and working capital requirements, including the anticipated level of capital expenditures, common stock repurchases, debt repayments and dividend payments for at least the next twelve months. 



Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements



As of September 28, 2019, we did not have any material off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.



ITEM 2: UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



On October 30, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of the Company’s common stock. This stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. The Company’s prior repurchase authorization was cancelled and superseded by this new repurchase authorization.







In the three months ended September 28, 2019, the Company repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of its common stock for approximately $93.6 million. As of September 28, 2019, the Company had remaining authorization of $1.0 billion for future share repurchases. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of such repurchases will be based on several factors, including the price of the Company’s common stock and general market and business conditions.



