We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers.
ProSeries and Lacerte are our leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants.
We have eliminated all significant intercompany balances and transactions in consolidation.
We have included all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, which we considered necessary for a fair presentation of our financial results for the interim periods presented.
We acquired TSheets.com LLC, Exactor, Inc., and Applatix, Inc. in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.
There have been no other changes to our significant accounting policies during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
We enter into contracts with customers that include promises to transfer various products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
We also sell some of our QuickBooks Desktop products and consumer tax desktop products in non-consignment and consignment arrangements to certain retailers.
For non-consignment retailers, we begin recognizing revenue when control has transferred to the retailer.We adopted the new accounting standards for revenue recognition effective August 1, 2018.
See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.We face intense competitive pressures that may harm our operating results.
Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market with new products and services.
In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models and monetization strategies, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses.
In order to compete, we have also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers as effectively as competitors with different business models.