We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us serve small business customers.
ProSeries and Lacerte are our leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants.
We have eliminated all significant intercompany balances and transactions in consolidation.
We have included all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, which we considered necessary for a fair presentation of our financial results for the interim periods presented.
Effective August 1, 2019, we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" (ASC 842) using the modified retrospective approach, under which financial results reported in prior periods were not restated.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2019.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2019.
There have been no other changes to our significant accounting policies during the first three months of fiscal 2019.
Our leases generally do not have a readily determinable implicit rate, therefore we use our incremental borrowing rate at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.
Our incremental borrowing rate is determined based on a yield curve derived from publicly traded bond offerings for companies with similar credit ratings to us.See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We have reinvented and disrupted ourselves to better serve our customers, as we continue to transform into an A.I.-driven expert platform company.Below, we describe certain important risks, categorized solely for ease of reference as strategic, operational, legal and compliance, and financial risks.
We face intense competitive pressures that may harm our operating results.
Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market with new products and services.
In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses.
In order to compete, we have also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers as effectively as competitors with different business models.