fls.txt



item1.txt
Refer to Note 15 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding legal proceedings.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.
See Note 15 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding pending litigation.
Further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner.
Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties.
We may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the assets or businesses.
These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions.
As a result of such transactions, we have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past.
Servicing our current debt will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to fund future payments.
If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive.


item2.txt
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized microcontrollers, development tools and related software, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, wired and wireless connectivity products, field-programmable gate array (FPGA) products, timing systems, memory products and Flash-IP licensing.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, aerospace, office communication, and computing.
Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe and assembly and test.
We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products.
While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products.
We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position.
Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory, analog and mixed-signal products, FPGAs, timing systems, Flash-IP, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries.
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Note 15 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding legal proceedings.
•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act); •property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi, which is our largest and most complex acquisition ever.
In addition, in April 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel; and in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel.
The integration process for our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities.
We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.
Acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results.
In connection with our acquisition of Microsemi, which closed on May 29, 2018, we incurred additional debt consisting of $3.10 billion under our revolving line of credit, $3.00 billion under our new term loan facility, and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
As a result of such transactions, we have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past.


