current incurred loss approach, which required waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of having been incurred.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
Note 3. Business Acquisitions On May 29, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
The Company paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards of the Company, was approximately $8.24 billion.
The Company financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under its amended and restated revolving line of credit (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), $3.00 billion of term loans ("Term Loan Facility") provided under the Company's amended and restated credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
The Company incurred $22.0 million in acquisition costs related to the acquisition.
As a result of the acquisition, Microsemi became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Company's primary reason for this acquisition was to expand the Company's range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending its served available market.
The factors contributing to the recognition of goodwill were based upon the Company's conclusion that there are strategic and synergistic benefits that are expected to be realized from the acquisition.You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.Refer to Note 16 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding legal proceedings.
We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.
See Note 16 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding such matters.
Further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies, which may include site closures, on acceptable terms or in a timely manner.