fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microchip Technology Incorporated and its majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries (the Company).
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
All dollar amounts in the financial statements and tables in these notes, except per share amounts, are stated in millions of U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
The information furnished herein reflects all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal recurring nature and necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods reported.
It is suggested that these condensed consolidated financial statements be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
As further discussed in Note 3, on May 29, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Microsemi Corporation (Microsemi) and the Company's first quarter fiscal 2019 financial results include Microsemi's results beginning as of such acquisition date.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
Note 3. Business Acquisitions On May 29, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards of the Company, was approximately $8.24 billion.
The Company financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under its amended and restated revolving line of credit (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), $3.00 billion of term loans ("Term Loan Facility") provided under the Company's amended and restated credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
As a result of the acquisition, Microsemi became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
Microsemi offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace and defense, communications, data center and industrial markets.
The Company's primary reason for this acquisition was to expand the Company's range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending its served available market.
The acquisition was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting, with the Company identified as the acquirer, and the operating results of Microsemi have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as of the closing date of the acquisition.
Purchased intangible assets include core and developed technology, in-process research and development, customer-related intangibles, acquisition-date backlog and other intangible assets.


item2.txt
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update the information contained in any forward-looking statement.
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Note 16 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding legal proceedings.
We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.
We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.
Further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner.
Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties.
We may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the assets or businesses.
As of June 30, 2019, the principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $11.40 billion.


