fls.txt



item1.txt
We could also be limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in credit arrangements, including limitations on our borrowing of additional funds and issuing dividends.
There can be no assurance that any new products we develop will be accepted in the marketplace or generate material revenues for us.
In addition, from time-to-time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent or copyright claims.
No assurance can be given that we will continue to maintain our competitive position with these or other significant customers.
We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment will also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns.
Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements.
Following completion of the Merger, we may not be able to maintain the growth rate, levels of revenue, earnings, or operating efficiency that we and Xcerra have achieved or might achieve separately.
Furthermore, we may incur material restructuring charges in connection with the Merger, which may adversely affect our operating results following the closing of the Merger in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
Completion of the Merger is conditioned upon the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, and we cannot provide assurance that these approvals will be obtained.
We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and introduce new products with improved performance capabilities.
Completion of the Merger is conditioned upon the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, and we cannot provide assurance that these approvals will be obtained.


item2.txt
On May 7, 2018, Cohu entered to a Merger Agreement with Xcerra and Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu.
The credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $6.6 million.
The ETR on income from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 25, 2017 was 20.8% and 16.7%, respectively.
As of March 31, 2018, we do not believe that circumstances have occurred that indicate impairment of our goodwill is more-likely-than-not.
Risk Factors”.


item3.txt
Income and expense accounts are translated at an average exchange rate during the year which approximates the rates in effect at the transaction dates.


item4.txt
We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, or for geopolitical or terrorism impacts, and presently have limited redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a disaster.
The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by dramatic and sometimes rapid changes in demand for its products.
Continued uncertainties may reduce future sales of our products and services.
Future competition may include companies that do not currently supply test handlers.
We have experienced significant volatility in our stock price.
As a result, it cannot be assured that the Merger will result in the realization of the full or any anticipated benefits.
Completion of the Merger is conditioned upon the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, and we cannot provide assurance that these approvals will be obtained.
We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment will also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns.
In addition, with the acquisition of Kita in 2017, we increased our investments in our test contactor business, and announced significant growth targets for the business over the next several years.
As a result of these changes and other factors, assessing the market potential and commercial viability of handling, MEMS, system-level and burn-in test equipment and test contactors is extremely difficult and subject to a great deal of risk.
We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties, particularly in manufacturing, in training and recruiting the large number of additions to our workforce.
During the past five years, the percentage of our sales derived from these significant customers has varied greatly.


