fls.txt



item1.txt
These implementations are extremely complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on software and implementation activities.
In addition, the tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit may make it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell.
This may result in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of its interest expense deductions.
We believe that customer support and responsiveness and an ability to consistently meet tight deadlines is critical to our success.
Continued uncertainties may reduce future sales of our products and services.
In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”.
The majority of our export sales are made to destinations in Asia.
In addition, as is common with semiconductor equipment, after sale support and warranty costs have typically been significantly higher with new products than with our established products.
Recent public policy changes and new trade tariffs and restrictions between the United States and China may, in our view, create an uncertain business environment.
The Debt Financing agreements contain certain negative covenants, including limitations on Cohu’s ability to incur additional liens and indebtedness or to pay dividends and make certain investments.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash resources and cash provided by operating activities will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next twelve months.


item2.txt
Other than foreign currency exchange rate changes and the Kita Acquisition, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the nine-month periods ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, was 39.9% in 2018 and 39.4% in 2017.
The Credit Agreement has incremental facility capacity in an aggregate amount of the greater of $145 million and 100% of consolidated EBITDA, with an additional $35 million available for revolving facilities, subject to certain conditions.
Unless otherwise indicated all amounts presented herein pertain only to Cohu, Inc. and exclude the impact of Xcerra.
For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows.


item3.txt
We evaluate our investments periodically for possible other-than-temporary impairment by reviewing factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition of the issuer and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient for anticipated recovery of market value.


item4.txt
The cost of investments in new product offerings can have a negative impact on our operating results and PANTHER, for example, has not generated any material revenues for us.
In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”.
We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
Sudden changes in demand for semiconductor equipment commonly occur, and have a significant impact on our operations.
In addition to government regulations regarding sale and export, we are subject to other regulations regarding our products.
Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with U.S. and other foreign country export and other regulations.
Differences in such processes make it difficult to design standard test products that can achieve broad market acceptance.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by dramatic and sometimes rapid changes in demand for its products.
The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive.
We may decide to finance future acquisitions and investments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and the use of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
The semiconductor equipment business is highly dependent on the overall strength of the semiconductor industry.


