fls.txt



item1.txt
These are generally dictated by introduction of new consumer products, launch of new model vehicles, implementation of new communications infrastructure, or in response to an increase in industrial equipment and machinery that utilizes semiconductors.
If our overseas manufacturing locations are unable to meet our manufacturing requirements in a timely manner, our ability to ship products and to realize the related revenues when anticipated could be materially affected.
Compliance with complex U.S. and other foreign country laws and regulations that apply to our international sales activities increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties.
Such adverse trends have materially impacted all of our business areas, including the businesses conducted by Xcerra.
Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate Xcerra, which is expected to be a complex, costly and time-consuming process.
In addition, we face intense competition from a number of Asian suppliers that have certain advantages over United States (“U.S.”) suppliers, including us.
The Xcerra division has relied on Spirox Corporation (“Spirox”) as its primary distribution channel for sales and service in China and Taiwan for its Semiconductor Test Solutions products, a region that represents a material portion of Xcerra’s revenues.
Also, the addition of overseas manufacturing locations increases the demands on our administrative and operations infrastructure and the complexity of our supply chain management.
Any failure to maintain such internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis.
Cohu may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to Cohu, in amounts sufficient to meet Cohu’s needs or at all.
Failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely impact our operations.


item2.txt
In computing the tax provision for the three months ended September 29, 2018 we used the ETR expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year.
In addition, our wholly owned subsidiary, Xcerra, has arrangements with various financial institutions for the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees.
The global semiconductor market grew in 2018 reaching a peak in the second quarter with business conditions softening during the second half of 2018.
Our cost of sales was impacted by the amortization of inventory step-up related to fair value adjustments to inventory acquired in business combinations.
At September 28, 2019, the outstanding loan balance was $3.7 million with none of the outstanding balance being presented as current installments of long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets based on contractual due dates.


item3.txt
Investment and Interest Rate Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
Cohu acquired Xcerra Corporation (“Xcerra”) on October 1, 2018, at which time Xcerra became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu (the “Merger”).
Certain key personnel are critical to our business.
Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with U.S. and other foreign country export and other regulations.
We also purchase a significant portion of components and subassemblies from suppliers outside the United States.
We may not be able to successfully adjust our systems, facilities and production capacity to meet our customers’ changing requirements.
We may also incur increases in manufacturing costs and supply chain risks due to our efforts to mitigate the impact of tariffs on our customers and our operations.
Specific legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; and modifications to international trade policy, such as approvals by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; increased duties, tariffs or other restrictions; public company reporting requirements; environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement.
These issuances of additional shares of our common stock have diluted shareholders’ ownership interest in our company, and shareholders now have a proportionately reduced ownership and voting interest in our company as a result of completion of the Merger.
As a result, it cannot be assured that the Merger will result in the realization of the full or any anticipated benefits.
We have manufacturing operations in Asia.


