fls.txt



item1.txt
We may discover liabilities, product return issues or deficiencies associated with Xcerra that were not identified in advance, which may result in significant unanticipated costs, including potential accounting and tax charges.
As a result, many key parts may be available only from a single supplier (“sole source”) or a limited number of suppliers.
Cohu’s ability to meet its expense and debt service obligations contained in the Debt Financing agreements will depend on Cohu’s future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of Cohu’s products and pressure from competitors.
The stock market in general, and the market for shares of high-technology companies in particular, including ours, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies.
If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger, when Cohu performs future impairment tests, it is possible that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets could exceed their implied fair value and therefore would require adjustment.
In addition, the cost of living in the San Diego and Bay Area, California, Boston, Massachusetts, Rosenheim and Kolbermoor, Germany, La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland and Osaka, Japan areas, where the majority of our engineering personnel are located, is high and we have had difficulty in recruiting prospective employees from other locations.
Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation.
Historically, the semiconductor industry has been seasonal with recurring periods of oversupply and excess capacity, which often have had a significant effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market.
Furthermore, we might not realize acceptable profit margins on such products.
If Cohu is able to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, such issuance would also result in dilution to Cohu’s stockholders.
Although we have completed the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including restructuring expenses and the payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.


item2.txt
As of June 29, 2019, $77.5 million or 54% of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
See Note 2, “Business Acquisitions, Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to intangible assets.
As of June 29, 2019, $77.5 million or 54% of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
On October 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Xcerra and our net sales for the first six months of 2019 include $157.6 million of net sales recognized by this business and is the driver of the increase in our net sales.
Subsequent to the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, during fourth quarter 2018, we began a strategic restructuring program designed to reposition our organization and improve our cost structure as part of our targeted integration plan regarding Xcerra and recorded restructuring charges, exclusive of the inventory related amounts described above, totaling $8.5 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2019.


item3.txt
The resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss.


item4.txt
The effectiveness of our due diligence review and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence are ultimately dependent upon the accuracy and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by Xcerra, as well as the limited amount of time in which the acquisition was executed.
Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs.
The total cost of the Merger will be allocated to the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective estimated fair values.
We may decide to finance future acquisitions and investments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and the use of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
As a result of the Merger an ownership change has occurred at Xcerra and as a consequence Cohu’s ability to utilize Xcerra’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards, that were already partially limited due to a prior acquisition, will be subject to annual limitations as provided for in Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383.
This includes developing products that we believe are necessary to meet the future needs of the marketplace.
This includes developing products that we believe are necessary to meet the future needs of the marketplace.
If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock.
Our ability to increase our ATE sales will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain orders from new customers.
In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.
Certain key personnel are critical to our business.
We also purchase a significant portion of components and subassemblies from suppliers outside the United States.


