fls.txt



item1.txt
For example, on June 15, 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative (the “USTR”) published a list of products covering 818 separate U.S. tariff lines valued at approximately $34 billion in 2018 trade values, imposing an additional duty of 25% on the listed product lines.
The cost of investments in new product offerings can have a negative impact on our operating results and PANTHER, for example, has not generated any material revenues for us.
Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies, or that our policies will be effective in preventing all potential violations.
It is common in the semiconductor test handler industry for customers to purchase equipment from more than one equipment supplier, increasing the risk that our competitive position with a specific customer may deteriorate.
On May 8, 2018, we announced that we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), dated as of May 7, 2018, by and among Cohu, Xavier Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cohu (“Merger Sub”) and Xcerra Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (“Xcerra”).
The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits.
We could also be limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in credit arrangements, including limitations on our borrowing of additional funds and issuing dividends.
Possible import, export, tariff and other trade barriers, which could be imposed by Asia, the United States, other countries or the European Union might also have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Following completion of the Merger, we may not be able to maintain the growth rate, levels of revenue, earnings, or operating efficiency that we and Xcerra have achieved or might achieve separately.
To address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of quality problems and appropriate solutions.
We could also be limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in credit arrangements, including limitations on our borrowing of additional funds and issuing dividends.


item2.txt
Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved.
Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations.
For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows.
The ETR on income from continuing operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and June 24, 2017, was 17.5% and 9.1%, respectively.
Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of June 30, 2018, was approximately $27.6 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $21.7 million.


item3.txt
Based upon the current levels of net foreign assets, a hypothetical 10% devaluation of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these currencies as of June 30, 2018 would result in an approximate $16.3 million positive translation adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity.


item4.txt
The seasonal nature of the semiconductor equipment industry places enormous demands on our employees, operations and infrastructure.
Whether or not we complete the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.
This includes developing products that we believe are necessary to meet the future needs of the marketplace.
We may not be able to successfully adjust our systems, facilities and production capacity to meet our customers’ changing requirements.
Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs.
We believe that customer support and responsiveness and an ability to consistently meet tight deadlines is critical to our success.
The test handler industry, while relatively small in terms of worldwide market size compared to other segments of the semiconductor equipment industry, has several participants resulting in intense competitive pricing pressures.
Additional complaints containing substantially similar allegations may be filed in the future.
It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies.
Political or economic instability, particularly in Asia, may adversely impact the demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market.
otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with either company, as applicable.
It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met.


