fls.txt



item1.txt
In addition, from time-to-time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent or copyright claims.
In addition, the seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of semiconductor equipment demand has in the past and may in the future expose us to significant excess and obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-offs and reserve requirements.
The design, development, commercial introduction and manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is an inherently complex process that involves a number of risks and uncertainties.
As a result, it cannot be assured that the Merger will result in the realization of the full or any anticipated benefits.
Recent public policy changes and new trade tariffs and restrictions between the United States and China may, in our view, create an uncertain business environment.
Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements.
Semiconductor and electronics manufacturers typically select a particular vendor’s product for testing new generations of a device and make substantial investments to develop related test program applications and interfaces.
The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive and we face substantial competition from numerous companies throughout the world.
Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs.
Our global Enterprise Resource Management (“ERP”) upgrade may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.
The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively or delayed, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits.


item2.txt
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Previously reported amounts were also adjusted to reflect current period presentation.
The current near term outlook for the semiconductor industry for 2019 assumes slower electronic equipment demand and slower growth for the global economy.
We also have long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $4.3 million primarily related to the expansion of Kita’s facility in Osaka, Japan.
However, when a reliable estimate of the annual ETR cannot be made, the actual ETR for the year-to-date period may be the best estimate of the annual ETR.


item3.txt
At March 30, 2019, our investment portfolio included short-term fixed-income investment securities with a fair value of approximately $0.6 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Although we have completed the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including restructuring expenses and the payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.
The semiconductor equipment business is highly dependent on the overall strength of the semiconductor industry.
In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”.
In addition, Cohu’s debt obligations may limit its ability to make required investments in capacity, technology or other areas of its business, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results.
We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment will also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns.
The stock market in general, and the market for shares of high-technology companies in particular, including ours, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies.
In accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications of impairment.
Because of high debt levels, Cohu has total consolidated long-term debt of $343 million, and may not be able to service its debt obligations in accordance with their terms; the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act severely limits the deductibility of interest expense.
Future actions, retaliation or further escalations by either the U.S. or China that affect trade relations may also impact our business, or that of our suppliers or customers, and we cannot provide any assurances as to whether such actions will occur or the form that they may take.
These annual limitations will result in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of these carryforwards.
The test contactor market is fragmented, with many entrenched regional players, and subject to intense price competition and high customer support requirements.
As a result, it cannot be assured that the Merger will result in the realization of the full or any anticipated benefits.


