fls.txt
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Forward-Looking Statements") with respect to the business of the Company.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers.
Apart from this adjustment and the inclusion of additional required disclosures in Note 2, the adoption of the new revenue standards did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a "right-of-use" model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these goods and services.
In our power solutions and protection group, we provide intelligent, efficient and reliable AC-DC and DC-DC power conversion devices and circuit protection products.
Applications range from board-mount power to system-level architectures for servers, storage, networking, industrial and transportation.
In our magnetic solutions group, we provide an extensive line of integrated connector modules (ICM), where an Ethernet magnetic solution is integrated into a connector package.
The Company also provides incremental services to our customers in the form of training, technical support, special tooling, and other support as deemed necessary from time to time.
Warranties generally extend for one to three years from the date of sale, providing customers with assurance that the related product will function as intended.
Factors taken into consideration when evaluating our warranty reserve are (i) historical claims for each product, (ii) volume increases, (iii) life of warranty, (iv) historical warranty repair costs and (v) other factors.
In general, the Company is not contractually obligated to accept returns except for defective product or in instances where the product does not meet the Company's product specifications.
In certain instances, the Company would generally require a significant cancellation penalty payment by the customer.


item2.txt
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
When we cross-reference to a "Note," we are referring to our "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements," unless the context indicates otherwise.
We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits.
Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead.
Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the PRC.
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
  ·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $4.6 million (or 4.0%) in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $1.6 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture.
Sales of our Connectivity Solutions products were also higher in the first quarter of 2018 with an increase in demand related to various military programs and within the industrial market for oil and gas, test and measurement, and broadcasting applications.
Since year-end, we saw a 33% increase in the backlog at Connectivity Solutions, driven by recent awards on key military programs, and a 25% increase at Magnetic Solutions, driven by demand for our multi-gig variants of ICMs from our key networking customers.
Our Power Solutions and Protection backlog grew by 12%, led by higher demand for our power supplies in the industrial and rail industries, and orders from new customers within the E-Mobility, Internet of Things and Blockchain segments.


item3.txt



part2.txt
The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 11 of the Company's Financial Statements, under "Legal Proceedings", as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


