fls.txt
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“Forward-Looking Statements”) with respect to the business of the Company.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these Forward-Looking Statements which may be necessary to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


item1.txt
The Company’s significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, except as discussed in “Recently Adopted Accounting Standards” below.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a “right-of-use” model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
In connection with the adoption, we elected to utilize the Comparatives Under 840 Option whereby the Company will continue to present prior period financial statements and disclosures under ASC 840.
In addition, we elected the transition package of three practical expedients permitted within the standard, which eliminates the requirements to reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
leases with terms of 12 months or less) and an accounting policy to account for lease and non-lease components as a single component for certain classes of assets.
The change in balance of our unbilled receivables from December 31, 2018 to September 30, 2019 primarily relates to a timing difference between the Company’s performance (i.e.
when our product is shipped to a customer-controlled hub) and the point at which the Company can invoice the customer per the terms of the customer contract (i.e.
Level 3 – Unobservable inputs about which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our available-for-sale securities primarily consisted of investments held in a rabbi trust which are intended to fund the Company’s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”) obligations.
These securities are measured at fair value using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1) inputs and amounted to $1.2 million at September 30, 2019 and $1.4 million at December 31, 2018.
The Company does not have any financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis categorized as Level 3, and there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 or September 30, 2018.
The Company has other financial instruments, such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable and accrued expenses, which are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis but are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or short-term nature.
The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt is estimated using a discounted cash flow method based on interest rates that are currently available for debt issuances with similar terms and maturities.


item2.txt
When we cross-reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.
We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits.
Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead.
Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the People’s Republic of China (PRC).
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
The Company has also experienced margin pressure throughout 2019 due to lower sales volumes and high material costs from 2018 which continue to run through the Company’s statement of operations.
Sales declines in each of our segments during the third quarter of 2019 reflected lower sales into our distribution channel as our distribution partners continue to work down their level of inventory on hand.
Sales in our Asia segment in the third quarter of 2019 were down versus 2018 as a result of customers working down heightened inventory levels which had been built up during 2018 in response to new product launches and the tariffs that went into effect in 2018 and 2019.
Sales of our Connectivity Solutions products during the third quarter of 2019 declined $4.0 million primarily due to lower demand from military customers as compared to last year's third quarter, and reduced volume of product flowing through our distribution channels as our distribution partners continue to work down inventory levels that had been built up in 2018 ahead of the tariffs.


