fls.txt
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Forward-Looking Statements") with respect to the business of the Company.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made.
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers.
We adopted the guidance under the new revenue standards effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach by recognizing the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard as an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings.
In connection with the modified retrospective application of the new revenue standards, we recorded an adjustment to increase retained earnings of $3.4 million upon the January 1, 2018 adoption date.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a "right-of-use" model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these goods and services.
In our power solutions and protection group, we provide AC-DC and DC-DC power conversion devices and circuit protection products.
Applications range from board-mount power to system-level architectures for servers, storage, networking, industrial and transportation.
In our magnetic solutions group, we provide an extensive line of integrated connector modules (ICM), where an Ethernet magnetic solution is integrated into a connector package.
The Company also provides incremental services to our customers in the form of training, technical support, special tooling, and other support as deemed necessary from time to time.
Warranties generally extend for one to three years from the date of sale, providing customers with assurance that the related product will function as intended.
In general, the Company is not contractually obligated to accept returns except for defective product or in instances where the product does not meet the Company's product specifications.


item2.txt
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
When we cross-reference to a "Note," we are referring to our "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements," unless the context indicates otherwise.
Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead.
Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the PRC.
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
Since year-end, we saw a 65% increase at Magnetic Solutions, driven by a strong position with our integrated connector modules in next-generation switching products.
The backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products increased by 21%, driven by recent awards on key military programs, and heightened structured cabling demand for our passive connectors.
Our Power Solutions and Protection backlog grew by 9%, led by higher demand for our power supplies for a variety of datacenter applications.
  ·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first nine months of 2018 increased from 10.4% of sales during the first nine months of 2017 to 11.5% of sales during the first nine months of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, particularly during the first half of 2018, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products.
  ·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first nine months of 2018, the Company incurred foreign exchange transactional gains of $2.4 million and higher labor and overhead costs of $2.5 million related to unfavorable fluctuation in exchange rates versus the first nine months of 2017.


item3.txt
The Company estimates that the appreciation in these foreign currencies led to $2.5 million in higher operating costs for the nine-month period as the majority of our expenses in the PRC, Europe and Mexico are paid in local currency.


part2.txt
The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 12 of the Company's Financial Statements, under "Legal Proceedings", as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


