fls.txt
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“Forward-Looking Statements”) with respect to the business of the Company.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these Forward-Looking Statements which may be necessary to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


item1.txt
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted from the following condensed consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations, including the interim reporting requirements, of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2019, except as discussed in “Recently Adopted Accounting Standards” below.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a “right-of-use” model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
In connection with the adoption, we elected to utilize the Comparatives Under 840 Option whereby the Company will continue to present prior period financial statements and disclosures under ASC 840.
In addition, we elected the transition package of three practical expedients permitted within the standard, which eliminates the requirements to reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
Further, we elected a short-term lease exception policy, permitting us to not apply the recognition requirements of this standard to short-term leases (i.e.
leases with terms of 12 months or less) and an accounting policy to account for lease and non-lease components as a single component for certain classes of assets.
The change in balance of our unbilled receivables from December 31, 2018 to June 30, 2019 primarily relates to a timing difference between the Company’s performance (i.e.
when our product is shipped to a customer-controlled hub) and the point at which the Company can invoice the customer per the terms of the customer contract (i.e.
The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations that have not been satisfied as of June 30, 2019 related to contracts that exceed one year in duration amounted to $14.3 million, with expected contract expiration dates that range from 2020 - 2025.
It is expected that 21% of this aggregate amount will be recognized in 2020, 54% will be recognized in 2021 and the remainder will be recognized in years beyond 2021.
Level 3 – Unobservable inputs about which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions.


item2.txt
All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars in the text are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted.
We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits.
These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries.
Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead.
Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the People’s Republic of China (PRC).
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
The backlog of orders for our Power Solutions and Protection products declined by 17% and backlog for our Magnetic Solutions products was down 29% from year-end 2018 levels.
Order volumes were lower in the first half of 2019 as a result of slowdowns in certain markets coupled with customers working down heighted inventory levels which had been built up in response to new product launches and the tariffs that went into effect in 2018 and 2019.
  ·   Pricing and Availability of Materials – While material cost and availability for certain components have started to ease, the higher raw material costs which were in place during 2018, particularly related to resistors, capacitors and mosfets, are still running through our supply chain as we ship the balance of our inventory on hand from 2018.
  ·   Labor Costs – Labor costs decreased from 11.4% of sales during the first half of 2018 to 11.0% of sales during the first half of 2019, as a more favorable exchange rate environment in 2019 related to the Chinese Renminbi offset the overall impact of minimum wage increases in Mexico which went into effect on January 1, 2019 as well as minimum wage increases in the PRC which went into effect in the first and third quarters of 2018.
  ·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first six months of 2019, the Company experienced lower labor and overhead costs of $3.2 million related to favorable fluctuations in exchange rates versus 2018, partially offset by foreign exchange transactional losses realized of $0.1 million.


item3.txt
This offset the foreign exchange loss recognized in the first half of 2019 of $0.1 million on translation of local currency balance sheet accounts to the U.S. Dollar in consolidation, resulting from foreign currency fluctuations since December 31, 2018.


part2.txt
The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 13 of the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, under “Legal Proceedings”, as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


