fls.txt
Furthermore, this document and other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") contain certain forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Forward-Looking Statements") with respect to the business of the Company.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made.
The Company's significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers.
Subsequently, the FASB issued several other updates related to revenue recognition (collectively with ASU 2014-09, the "new revenue standards" or "ASC 606").
In connection with the modified retrospective application of the new revenue standards, we recorded an adjustment to increase retained earnings of $3.4 million upon the January 1, 2018 adoption date.
Apart from this adjustment and the inclusion of additional required disclosures in Note 2, the adoption of the new revenue standards did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a "right-of-use" model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605.
In our power solutions and protection group, we provide intelligent, efficient and reliable AC-DC and DC-DC power conversion devices and circuit protection products.
Applications range from board-mount power to system-level architectures for servers, storage, networking, industrial and transportation.
In our magnetic solutions group, we provide an extensive line of integrated connector modules (ICM), where an Ethernet magnetic solution is integrated into a connector package.
The Company also provides incremental services to our customers in the form of training, technical support, special tooling, and other support as deemed necessary from time to time.
Warranties generally extend for one to three years from the date of sale, providing customers with assurance that the related product will function as intended.


item2.txt
When we cross-reference to a "Note," we are referring to our "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements," unless the context indicates otherwise.
Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead.
Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time.
These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us.
  ·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $13.7 million (or 5.6%) in the first half of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $3.7 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture.
The backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products increased by 25%, driven by recent awards on key military programs, and heightened structured cabling demand for our passive connectors.
Our Power Solutions and Protection backlog grew by 19%, led by higher demand for our power supplies in both traditional data centers and those used for blockchain technology.
  ·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first half of 2018 increased from 10.2% of sales during the first half of 2017 to 11.4% of sales during the first half of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products.
  ·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first half of 2018, the Company incurred foreign exchange transactional gains of $0.9 million and higher labor and overhead costs of $3.2 million related to unfavorable fluctuations in exchange rates versus the first half of 2017.
The Company was unfavorably impacted by transactional foreign exchange losses during the first half of 2018 due to the appreciation of the Euro, Pound, and Renminbi against the U.S. dollar as compared to exchange rates in effect during the first half of 2017.
While we are optimistic as to the business opportunities we see ahead, we continue to see challenges in labor and material costs, and limited component availability within certain areas of the supply chain.


item3.txt
In addition to the foreign exchange losses recognized, the Company recorded foreign exchange gains of $1.9 million and $0.9 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, on remeasurement of foreign currency transactions.


part2.txt
The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 12 of the Company's Financial Statements, under "Legal Proceedings", as set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


