fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the year ending December 31, 2018.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 and all the related amendments ("new revenue standard" or "ASC 606") using the modified retrospective method to those contracts not yet completed as of January 1, 2018.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
"Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled receivables and deferred revenue and advance payments from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Remaining performance obligations related to ASC 606 represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period.
The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) which allows employees to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock at 85 percent of the fair market value at the lower of either the date of enrollment or the purchase date.


item2.txt
Excluding the divestiture of the Consumer and SMB Security businesses, we currently expect total annual revenue for 2018 to be higher than 2017 revenue and reported revenue including the divested businesses to be about flat or slightly down when compared to prior year.
International sales accounted for 48.4 percent and 48.4 percent of total revenue for the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Overall, we anticipate that revenue from international sales will continue to comprise a significant percentage of total revenue.
Cost of goods sold for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were $220.2 million and $441.9 million, compared to cost of goods sold for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 of $227.4 million and $442.9 million, respectively.
The decrease in cost of goods sold for the three and six month periods is primarily related to favorable product mix in 2018.
Gross profit for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, was $232.6 million compared to $206.7 million for the same quarter last year.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance the long-term competitiveness of the Company.
Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs.
We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events.
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future.
From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative and regulatory proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to our results of operations and may limit our ability to engage in our business activities.
In recognition of these considerations, we have and may in the future enter into material settlements to avoid ongoing costs and efforts in defending or pursuing a matter.
Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased the Company’s cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company.


