fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the year ending December 31, 2019.
Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASC 842 and all the related amendments using the modified retrospective method, using the permitted practical expedients, to those contracts still outstanding as of January 1, 2019.
The amendments in this update align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold.
The Company's products are sold with warranty provisions that require it to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of the Company's products over a specified period of time, generally twelve to twenty-four months, at no cost to its customers.
Warranty liabilities are established at the time that revenue is recognized at levels that represent the Company's estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements.
See Note 19, "Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled receivables and deferred revenue and advance payments from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Remaining performance obligations represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period.
While the remaining performance obligation disclosure is similar in concept to backlog, the definition of remaining performance obligations excludes contracts that provide the customer with the right to cancel or terminate for convenience with no substantial penalty, even if historical experience indicates the likelihood of cancellation or termination is remote.


item2.txt
Increases in revenues for the three month period was primarily driven by increases in our Government and Defense business unit which is partially attributed to the acquisitions of Aeryon Labs Inc. ("Aeryon") and Endeavor Robotics Holdings Inc. ("Endeavor") during the first quarter of 2019 coupled with volume increases of unmanned solutions and surveillance systems.
Cost of goods sold for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $241.7 million and $701.1 million, respectively, compared to cost of goods sold for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $212.8 million and $654.7 million, respectively.
The increase in cost of goods sold for the three month period is partially attributed to the acquisitions of Aeryon and Endeavor coupled with volume increases of unmanned solutions and surveillance systems.
Gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2019, was $229.6 million compared to $222.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $696.9 million compared to $672.5 million for the nine month period ended September 30, 2018.
Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, decreased from 51.1 percent in the third quarter of 2018 to 48.7 percent in the third quarter of 2019 and was relatively flat at 49.8 percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to 50.7 percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business.
For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 29 percent, 26 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies.
The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control.
A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.
Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance our long-term competitiveness.
Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs.


