fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
The Company’s results for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
The terms “fiscal 2019” and “fiscal 2018” refer to our fiscal years ending April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. (“American Software”) and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”).
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
The Company adopted the new revenue standard effective May 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, which established new ASC Topic 842 (ASC 842), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.
Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease.
However, unlike current GAAP, which requires only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard will require both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
Nature of Products and Services.
The customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no right to take delivery of the software without incurring a significant penalty.


item2.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
Corporate capital spending trends and commitments are the primary determinants of the size of the market for business software.
In January 2019, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook for 2018 and 2019.
The global economy is projected to grow at 3.5 percent in 2019 and 3.6 percent in 2020, 0.2 and 0.1 percentage point below last October’s projections.
The global growth forecast for 2019 and 2020 had already been revised downward in the last WEO, partly because of the negative effects of tariff increases enacted in the United States and China earlier that year.
The further downward revision since October in part reflects carry over from softer momentum in the second half of 2018—including in Germany following the introduction of new automobile fuel emission standards and in Italy where concerns about sovereign and financial risks have weighed on domestic demand—but also weakening financial market sentiment as well as a contraction in Turkey now projected to be deeper than anticipated."
Customers continue to take long periods to evaluate discretionary software purchases.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
The SCM segment also includes (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) corporate overhead and other common expenses.
We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Software topic of the FASB ASC.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency.
In each of the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, we generated approximately 17% and 19% of our revenues, respectively, outside the United States.


item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings Item 1A.Risk Factors Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information None.


