fls.txt
Although we believe that the goals, plans, expectations, and prospects that our forward-looking statements reflect are reasonable in view of the information currently available to us, those statements are not guarantees of performance.


item1.txt
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
The Company’s results for the three months ended July 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
The terms “fiscal 2020” and “fiscal 2019” refer to our fiscal years ending April 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
2016-02, Leases, which established new FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 842 ("ASC 842"), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
Consistent with prior GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease.
However, unlike prior GAAP, which required only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard requires both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet.
These disclosures include qualitative and quantitative requirements, providing additional information about the amounts recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company adopted ASC 842 on May 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective method and utilized the optional transition method under which the Company continues to apply the legacy guidance in ASC 840, Leases, including its disclosure requirements, in the comparative period presented.
Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of operating lease ROU assets of approximately $2.7 million, current operating lease liabilities of approximately $0.7 million and long-term operating lease liabilities of approximately $2.1 million as of May 1, 2019.
The adoption had no impact on retained earnings, the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, or the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Nature of Products and Services.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
The customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no right to take delivery of the software without incurring a significant penalty.


item2.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
All forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Quarterly Report.
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.
Since the April World Economic Outlook (WEO) report, the United States further increased tariffs on certain Chinese imports and China retaliated by raising tariffs on a subset of US imports.
Global technology supply chains were threatened by the prospect of US sanctions, Brexit related uncertainty continued, and rising geopolitical tensions roiled energy prices.
Against this backdrop, global growth is forecast at 3.2 percent in 2019, picking up to 3.5 percent in 2020 (0.1 percentage point lower than in the April WEO projections for both years).
Accordingly, global trade, which is intensive in machinery and consumer durables, remains sluggish.
The projected growth pickup in 2020 is precarious, presuming stabilization in currently stressed emerging market and developing economies and progress toward resolving trade policy differences."
For fiscal 2020, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency.
In the three months ended July 31, 2019, we generated approximately 22% of our revenues outside the United States.


item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings Item 1A.Risk Factors None.


