fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


item1.txt
Diluted per share amounts for Class A Common Shares are shown above.
The Company’s results for the three months ended July 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (“American Software” or the “Company”).
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaces the existing revenue recognition guidance.
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit which the Company has determined to be six years, which has an impact of $1.1 million.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
The Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
Nature of Products and Services.
Maintenance for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer.
Revenue related to maintenance is generally paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the agreement since the Company is standing ready to provide a series of maintenance services that are substantially the same each period over the term, and therefore, time is the best measure of progress.
Indirect Channel Revenue.


item2.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.
The update noted that, “Global growth is projected to reach 3.9 percent in 2018 and 2019, in line with the forecast of the April 2018 World Economic Outlook (WEO), but the expansion is becoming less even, and risks to the outlook are mounting.
The rate of expansion appears to have peaked in some major economies and growth has become less synchronized.
Growth projections have been revised down for the euro area, Japan, and the United Kingdom, reflecting negative surprises to activity in early 2018.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
Recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI), as well as (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) corporate overhead and other common expenses.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency.
In the three months ended July 31, 2018, we generated approximately 20% of our revenues outside the United States.


item4.txt
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
Item 1.


