Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services. We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us serve small business customers.
Our flagship brands, QuickBooks, TurboTax and Mint, help customers run their small businesses, pay employees and send invoices, separate business and personal expenses, track their money, and file income taxes. ProSeries and Lacerte are our leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants. Incorporated in 1984 and headquartered in Mountain View, California, we sell our products and services primarily in the United States.
These condensed consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Intuit and its wholly owned subsidiaries. We have eliminated all significant intercompany balances and transactions in consolidation. We have included all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, which we considered necessary for a fair presentation of our financial results for the interim periods presented.
Effective August 1, 2019, we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" (ASC 842) using the modified retrospective approach, under which financial results reported in prior periods were not restated. As a result, the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2019 is not comparable with that as of July 31, 2019.
Funds held for customers represent cash held on behalf of our customers that is invested in cash and cash equivalents and investment-grade available-for-sale debt securities. The purchases, sales and maturities of the investments for our funds held for customers are presented in investing activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Customer fund deposits consist of amounts we owe on behalf of our customers. We present the net change in customer fund deposits in financing activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. For the three months ended October 31, 2018, we reclassified $71 million from investing activities to financing activities to conform to the current presentation, resulting in a decrease in net cash used in financing activities with a corresponding offset to net cash used in investing activities.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2019. Results for the three months ended October 31, 2019 do not necessarily indicate the results we expect for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2020 or any other future period.
Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2019. See the discussion of changes to our lease accounting policy for the adoption of ASC 842, the new leases standard, below. There have been no other changes to our significant accounting policies during the first three months of fiscal 2019.
Our leases are primarily operating leases for office facilities. We do not have significant finance leases. We determine if an arrangement is a lease and classify it as either a finance or operating lease at lease inception. Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use (ROU) assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Our subleases generally do not relieve us of our primary obligations under the corresponding head lease. As a result, we account for the head lease based on the original assessment at inception. We determine if the sublease arrangement is either a sales-type, direct financing, or operating lease at inception. If the total remaining lease cost on the head lease for the term of the sublease is greater than the anticipated sublease income, the ROU asset is assessed for impairment. Our subleases are generally operating leases and we recognize sublease income on a straight-line basis over the sublease term.
In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we make certain judgments, estimates, and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and the disclosures made in the accompanying notes. For example, we use judgments and estimates in determining how revenue should be recognized. These judgments and estimates include identifying performance obligations, determining if the performance obligations are distinct, determining the standalone sales price (SSP) and timing of revenue recognition for each distinct performance obligation, and estimating variable consideration to be included in the transaction price. We use estimates in determining the collectibility of accounts receivable and notes receivable, the appropriate levels of various accruals including accruals for litigation contingencies, the discount rate used to calculate lease liabilities, the amount of our worldwide tax provision, and the realizability of deferred tax assets. We also use estimates in determining the remaining economic lives and fair values of acquired intangible assets, property and equipment, and other long-lived assets. In addition, we use assumptions to estimate the fair value of reporting units and share-based compensation. Despite our intention to establish accurate estimates and use reasonable assumptions, actual results may differ from our estimates.
We compute basic net income or loss per share using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. We compute diluted net income per share using the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive potential common shares consist of the shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and upon the vesting of restricted stock units (RSUs) under the treasury stock method.
We include stock options with combined exercise prices and unrecognized compensation expense that are less than the average market price for our common stock, and RSUs with unrecognized compensation expense that is less than the average market price for our common stock, in the calculation of diluted net income per share. We exclude stock options with combined exercise prices and unrecognized compensation expense that are greater than the average market price for our common stock, and RSUs with unrecognized compensation expense that is greater than the average market price for our common stock, from the calculation of diluted net income per share because their effect is anti-dilutive. Under the treasury stock method, the amount that must be paid to exercise stock options and the amount of compensation expense for future service that we have not yet recognized for stock options and RSUs are assumed to be used to repurchase shares.
All of the RSUs we grant have dividend rights. Dividend rights are accumulated and paid when the underlying RSUs vest. Since the dividend rights are subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying equity awards they are considered a contingent transfer of value. Consequently, the RSUs are not considered participating securities and we do not present them separately in earnings per share. 
In loss periods, basic net loss per share and diluted net loss per share are the same since the effect of potential common shares is anti-dilutive and therefore excluded.
Generally, we receive payment at the time we enter into a contract with a customer. We record deferred revenue when we have entered into a contract with a customer and cash payments are received or due prior to transfer of control or satisfaction of the related performance obligation. During the three months ended October 31, 2019, we recognized revenue of $355 million that was included in deferred revenue at July 31, 2019. During the three months ended October 31, 2018, we recognized revenue of $327 million that was included in deferred revenue at July 31, 2018.
Our performance obligations are generally satisfied within 12 months of the initial contract date. As of October 31, 2019 and July 31, 2019, the deferred revenue balance related to performance obligations that will be satisfied after 12 months was $2 million and $4 million, respectively, and is included in other long-term obligations on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Notes receivable consist of term loans to small businesses and are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of October 31, 2019 and July 31, 2019, the notes receivable balance was $96 million and $95 million, respectively, and the allowance for loan losses were not significant. The term loans are not secured and are recorded at amortized cost, net of allowances for loan losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to reserve for potentially uncollectible notes receivable. We evaluate the creditworthiness of our loan portfolio on a pooled basis due to its composition of small, homogeneous loans with similar general credit risk and characteristics and apply a loss rate at the time of loan origination. The loss rate and underlying model are updated periodically to reflect actual loan performance and changes in assumptions. We make judgments about the known and inherent risks in the loan portfolio, adverse situations that may affect borrowers’ ability to repay and current economic conditions. When we determine that amounts are uncollectible, we write them off against the allowance.
Leases - In February 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)”. This standard amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. We adopted this standard in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective approach, under which financial results reported in prior periods were not adjusted. We elected certain practical expedients, including the relief package practical expedient which among other things allowed us to carry forward the historical lease classifications. We also elected the practical expedient to combine lease and non-lease components for all asset classes.
The adoption of ASC 842 on August 1, 2019 resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and operating lease liabilities of $319 million and $361 million, respectively, related to our operating leases. Adoption of the standard also resulted in the elimination of deferred rent liabilities of $47 million and prepaid rent of $5 million. Adoption did not result in any cumulative-effect adjustments to retained earnings, and there was no material impact to our condensed consolidated statements of operations or our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Financial Instruments - In June 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326).” This standard requires the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years, which means that it will be effective for us in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2020. Earlier adoption is permitted in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
We do not expect that any other recently issued accounting pronouncements will have a significant effect on our financial statements.
The authoritative guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market for an asset or liability and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. In addition, we consider and use all valuation methods that are appropriate in estimating the fair value of an asset or liability.
•Level 1 uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 uses inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable through correlation with market data. These include quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and inputs to valuation models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment because the inputs used in the model, such as interest rates and volatility, can be corroborated by readily observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 uses one or more unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the determination of fair value. Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar valuation techniques and significant management judgment or estimation.
The following table summarizes financial assets and financial liabilities that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at the dates indicated, classified in accordance with the fair value hierarchy described above. 
The following table summarizes our cash equivalents and available-for-sale debt securities by balance sheet classification and level in the fair value hierarchy at the dates indicated.
We value our Level 1 assets, consisting primarily of time deposits, savings deposit accounts, and money market funds using quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments. Financial assets whose fair values we measure on a recurring basis using Level 2 inputs consist of municipal bonds, corporate notes, and U.S. agency securities. We measure the fair values of these assets with the help of a pricing service that either provides quoted market prices in active markets for identical or similar securities or uses observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure that we record appropriate fair values for our Level 2 investments. These controls include comparison to pricing provided by a secondary pricing service or investment manager, validation of pricing sources and models, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period price fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. 
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and funds held for customers by balance sheet classification at the dates indicated.
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and funds held for customers by investment category at the dates indicated. 
We accumulate unrealized gains and losses on our available-for-sale debt securities, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss in the stockholders’ equity section of our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Gross unrealized gains and losses on our available-for-sale debt securities at October 31, 2019 and July 31, 2019 were not significant.
We periodically review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. We believe that the investments we held at October 31, 2019 were not other-than-temporarily impaired. Unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities at October 31, 2019 were not significant and were due to changes in interest rates, including market credit spreads, and not due to increased credit risks associated with specific securities. We do not intend to sell these investments. In addition, it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell them before recovery at par, which may be at maturity.
The following table summarizes our available-for-sale debt securities, included in investments and funds held for customers, classified by the stated maturity date of the security at the dates indicated.
The following table summarizes our funds held for customers by investment category at the dates indicated.
We describe our purchase obligations in Note 8 to the financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2019. There were no significant changes in our purchase obligations during the three months ended October 31, 2019.
We lease office facilities under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. Our facility leases generally provide for periodic rent increases and may contain escalation clauses and renewal options. Our leases have remaining lease terms of less than 1 year to 11 years, some of which include one or more options to extend the leases for up to 10 years per option, generally at rates to be determined in accordance with the agreements. Options to extend the lease are included in the lease liability if they are reasonably certain of being exercised. We do not have significant finance leases. 
We sublease certain office facilities to third parties. These subleases have remaining lease terms from 1 to 5 years, and some include options to extend the leases for up to 4 years.
As of October 31, 2019, we have additional operating leases of $19 million, primarily for office facilities, that have not yet commenced and therefore are not reflected on the condensed consolidated balance sheet nor in the tables above. These operating leases will commence between fiscal year 2020 and fiscal year 2022 with lease terms of 5 to 10 years.
We recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $29 million and $41 million in our provision for income taxes for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The total amount of our unrecognized tax benefits at July 31, 2019 was $120 million. Net of related deferred tax assets, unrecognized tax benefits were $75 million at that date. If we were to recognize these net benefits, our income tax expense would reflect a favorable net impact of $75 million. There were no material changes to these amounts during the three months ended October 31, 2019. We do not believe that it is reasonably possible that there will be a significant increase or decrease in our unrecognized tax benefits over the next 12 months.
We have offset $52 million of long-term income tax receivable primarily related to fiscal 2018 against our long term liability for uncertain tax positions at October 31, 2019. The fiscal 2018 receivable is related to the government’s approval of a method of accounting change request.
Intuit’s Board of Directors has authorized a series of common stock repurchase programs. Shares of common stock repurchased under these programs become treasury shares. We repurchased 515,000 shares for $139 million under these programs during the three months ended October 31, 2019. Included in this amount were $4 million of repurchases which occurred in late October 2019 and were settled in early November 2019. At October 31, 2019, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $2.5 billion for stock repurchases. Future stock repurchases under the current programs are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
Our treasury shares are repurchased at the market price on the trade date; accordingly, all amounts paid to reacquire these shares have been recorded as treasury stock on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Repurchased shares of our common stock are held as treasury shares until they are reissued or retired. When we reissue treasury stock, if the proceeds from the sale are more than the average price we paid to acquire the shares we record an increase in additional paid-in capital. Conversely, if the proceeds from the sale are less than the average price we paid to acquire the shares, we record a decrease in additional paid-in capital to the extent of increases previously recorded for similar transactions and a decrease in retained earnings for any remaining amount.
In the past we have satisfied option exercises and restricted stock unit vesting under our employee equity incentive plans by reissuing treasury shares, and we may do so again in the future. During the second quarter of fiscal 2014 we began issuing new shares of common stock to satisfy option exercises and RSU vesting under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. We have not yet 
determined the ultimate disposition of the shares that we have repurchased in the past, and consequently we continue to hold them as treasury shares.
During the three months ended October 31, 2019 we declared quarterly cash dividends that totaled $0.53 per share of outstanding common stock for a total of $141 million. In November 2019 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.53 per share of outstanding common stock payable on January 21, 2020 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 10, 2020. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
The following table summarizes the total share-based compensation expense that we recorded in operating income or loss for the periods shown.
At October 31, 2019, there was approximately $879 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs with a weighted average vesting period of 3.0 years. We will adjust unrecognized compensation cost for actual forfeitures as they occur.
At October 31, 2019, there was approximately $48 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock options with a weighted average vesting period of 2.9 years. We will adjust unrecognized compensation cost for actual forfeitures as they occur.
Beginning in May 2019, various legal proceedings were filed and certain regulatory inquiries were commenced in connection with the provision and marketing of our free online tax preparation programs. We believe that the allegations contained within the legal proceedings are without merit. We intend to vigorously defend against the legal proceedings and cooperate in the investigations.
We have defined our three reportable segments, described below, based on factors such as how we manage our operations and how our chief operating decision maker views results. We define the chief operating decision maker as our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. Our chief operating decision maker organizes and manages our business primarily on the basis of product and service offerings.
All of our segments operate primarily in the United States and sell primarily to customers in the United States. International total net revenue was approximately 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented.
We include expenses such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative, and share-based compensation, which are not allocated to specific segments, in unallocated corporate items. Unallocated corporate items also include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges.
The accounting policies of our reportable segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2019 and in Note 1, "Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Significant Accounting Policies" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Except for goodwill and purchased intangible assets, we do not generally track assets by reportable segment and, consequently, we do not disclose total assets by reportable segment.
The following table shows our financial results by reportable segment for the periods indicated.
Revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products was $27 million for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and $29 million for the three months ended October 31, 2018. These amounts are included in the QuickBooks Desktop Accounting revenue presented in the table above.
We face intense competition in all of our businesses, and we expect competition to remain intense in the future. Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups. Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market with new products and services. In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers. 
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses. In order to compete, we have also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers as effectively as competitors with different business models. In addition, other providers of free offerings may provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for Intuit’s products and services may elect to use our competitors’ free offerings instead. These competitive factors may diminish our revenue and profitability, and harm our ability to acquire and retain customers.
Our consumer tax business also faces significant potential competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities proposing revenue raising strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense. These or similar programs may be introduced or expanded in the future, which may change the voluntary compliance tax system in ways that could cause us to lose customers and revenue. The IRS Free File Program is currently the sole means by which the IRS offers tax software to taxpayers, and as part of the program the IRS has agreed it will not offer a duplicative or competing service. Under this program, the IRS has worked with private industry to provide more than 56 million free returns since 2003, utilizing donated private sector tax software and e-filing services for low and middle income taxpayers at no cost to the government or individual users. However, its continuation depends on a number of factors, including increasing public awareness of and access to the free program, as well as continued government support. The current agreement is scheduled to expire in October 2021. Recently, we have become the subject of certain legal proceedings and regulatory inquiries relating to the provision and marketing of the product that we offer under the IRS Free File Program. While we believe that the allegations in these proceedings are without merit, the proceedings may decrease the government’s support of such program and increase the likelihood that such program is terminated. If the Free File Program were to be terminated and the IRS were to enter the software development and return preparation space, the federal government would become a publicly funded direct competitor of the U.S. tax services industry and of Intuit. Government funded services that curtail or eliminate the role of taxpayers in preparing their own taxes could potentially have material and adverse revenue implications. 
We operate in industries that are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. We must continue to innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer needs and attract and retain talented software developers. We need to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies, which requires us to devote significant resources.
Our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services. As our existing products mature, encouraging customers to purchase product upgrades becomes more challenging unless new product releases provide features and functionality that have meaningful incremental value. We also provide additional customer benefits by utilizing customer data available to us through our existing offerings. If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the value of new or upgraded products or services to our customers, or effectively utilize our customers’ data to provide them with value, our revenues may be harmed. In addition, as we continue to introduce and expand our new business models, including offerings that are free to end users, our customers may not perceive value in the additional benefits and services we offer beyond our free offering and may choose not to pay for those additional benefits or we may be unsuccessful in increasing customer adoption of these offerings or our risk profile may change, resulting in loss of revenue.
We have devoted significant resources to develop products and services for users of mobile devices, but the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compelling to users. Even if we are able to attract new users through these mobile offerings, the amount of revenue that we derive per user from mobile offerings may be less than the revenue that we have historically derived from users of personal computers. As new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our products and services for use on mobile devices and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such offerings. If we are slow to develop products and technologies that are compatible with mobile devices, or if our competitors are able to achieve those results more quickly than us, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services, which could adversely affect our business. Further, legislation or regulatory changes may mandate changes in our products that make them less attractive to users. 
We rely on third-party intellectual property in our products and services.
Some of our offerings include third-party software that is licensed under so-called “open source” licenses, some of which may include a requirement that, under certain circumstances, we make available, or grant licenses to, any modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software. Although we have established internal review and approval processes to mitigate these risks, we may not be sure that all open source software is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source may not be eliminated, and may, if not properly addressed, harm our business.
Policing unauthorized use and copying of our products is difficult, expensive, and time consuming. Current U.S. laws that prohibit copying give us only limited practical protection from software piracy and the laws of many other countries provide very little protection. We frequently encounter unauthorized copies of our software being sold through online marketplaces. Although we continue to evaluate and put in place technology solutions to attempt to lessen the impact of piracy and engage in efforts to educate consumers and public policy leaders on these issues and cooperate with industry groups in their efforts to combat piracy, we expect piracy to be a persistent problem that results in lost revenues and increased expenses.
Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.
•in the case of foreign acquisitions and investments, the impact of particular economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.
Security incidents, improper access to or disclosure of our data or customers’ data, or other cyberattacks on our systems could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business.
We host, collect, use and retain large amounts of sensitive and personal customer and workforce data, including credit card information, tax return information, bank account numbers, login credentials and passwords, personal and business financial data and transactions data, social security numbers and payroll information, as well as our confidential, nonpublic business information. We use commercially available security technologies and security and business controls to limit access to and use of such sensitive data. Although we expend significant resources to create security protections designed to shield this data against potential theft and security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. 
Our technologies, systems, and networks have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, social engineering, malicious software programs, insider threats, and other cybersecurity incidents that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, use, loss or destruction of sensitive and personal data of our customers and members of our workforce, or Intuit's sensitive business data or cause temporary or sustained unavailability of our software and systems. These types of attacks can be made by individuals, groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states themselves. Customers who fail to update their systems, continue to run software that we no longer support or that fail to install security patches on a timely basis create vulnerabilities and make it more difficult for us to detect and prevent these kinds of attacks. We are increasingly incorporating open source software into our products. There may be vulnerabilities in open source software that make it susceptible to cyberattacks. In addition, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to sensitive information change frequently, and are becoming more sophisticated and are often not able to be detected until after a successful attack, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. Although this is an industry-wide problem that affects software and hardware across platforms, it may increasingly affect our offerings because cyber-criminals tend to focus their efforts on well-known offerings that are popular among customers and hold sensitive information and we expect them to continue to do so. 
Further, the security measures that we implement may not be able to prevent unauthorized access to our products and our customers’ account data. Third parties may fraudulently induce members of our workforce, customers, or users by social engineering means, such as email phishing, to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our systems. It is also possible that unauthorized access to or disclosure of customer data may occur due to inadequate use of security controls by our customers or members of our workforce. Accounts created with weak or recycled passwords could allow cyberattackers to gain access to customer data. Unauthorized persons could gain access to customer accounts if customers do not maintain effective access controls of their systems and software.
Criminals may also use stolen identity information obtained outside of our systems to gain unauthorized access to our customers’ data. We have experienced such instances in the past and as the accessibility of stolen identity information increases, generally, we may experience further instances of unauthorized access to our systems through the use of stolen identity information of our customers or members of our workforce in the future. Further, our customers may choose to use the same user ID and password across multiple products and services unrelated to our products. Such customers’ login credentials may be stolen from products offered by third-party service providers unrelated to us and the stolen identity information may be used by a malicious third party to access our products, which could result in disclosure of confidential information. 
Our efforts to protect data may also be unsuccessful due to software bugs (whether open source or proprietary code), break-ins, workforce member error or other threats that evolve. 
Further, because we have created an ecosystem where customers can have one identity across multiple Intuit products, a security incident may give access to increased amounts of customer data. This may result in disclosure of confidential information, loss of customer confidence in our products, possible litigation, material harm to our reputation and financial condition, disruption of our or our customers’ business operations and a decline in our stock price. From time to time, we detect, or receive notices from customers or public or private agencies that they have detected, actual or perceived vulnerabilities in our servers, our software or third-party software components that are distributed with our products or fraudulent activity by unauthorized persons utilizing our products with stolen customer identity information. The existence of such vulnerabilities or fraudulent activity, even if they do not result in a security breach, may undermine customer confidence 
We depend on a number of third parties, including vendors, developers and partners who are critical to our business. We or our customers may grant access to customer data to these third parties to help deliver customer benefits, or to host certain of our and our customers' sensitive and personal data. In addition, we share sensitive, nonpublic business information (including, for example, materials relating to financial, business and legal strategies) with other vendors in the ordinary course of business. 
Concerns about the current privacy and cybersecurity environment, generally, could deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services and damage our reputation.
The continued occurrence of cyberattacks and data breaches on governments, businesses and consumers in general indicates that we operate in an external environment where cyberattacks and data breaches are becoming increasingly common. If the global cybersecurity environment worsens, and there are increased instances of security breaches of third-party offerings where consumers’ data and sensitive information is compromised, consumers may be less willing to use online offerings, particularly offerings like ours in which customers often share sensitive financial data. In addition, the increased availability of data obtained as a result of breaches of third-party offerings could make our own products more vulnerable to fraudulent activity. Even if our products are not affected directly by such incidents, any such incident could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services or lead customers to cease using online and connected software products to transact financial business altogether.
The online tax preparation, payroll administration and online payments industries have been experiencing an increasing amount of fraudulent activities by third parties, and those fraudulent activities are becoming increasingly sophisticated. Although we do not believe that any of this activity is uniquely targeted at our products or business, this type of fraudulent activity may adversely impact our tax, payroll, and payments businesses. In addition to any losses that may result from such fraud, which may be substantial, a loss of confidence by our customers or by governmental agencies in our ability to prevent fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our offerings may seriously harm our business and damage our brand. If we cannot adequately combat such fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our tax offerings, governmental authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to offer such services, which could include federal or state tax authorities refusing to allow us to process our customers’ tax returns electronically, resulting in a significant adverse impact on our earnings and revenue. As fraudulent activities become more pervasive and increasingly sophisticated, and fraud detection and prevention measures must become correspondingly more complex to combat them across the various industries in which we operate, we may implement risk control mechanisms that could make it more difficult for legitimate customers to obtain and use our products, which could result in lost revenue and negatively impact our earnings.
Our operations process a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis, especially in our payroll and payments businesses. Despite our efforts to ensure that effective processing systems and controls are in place to handle transactions appropriately, it is possible that we may make errors or that funds may be misappropriated due to fraud. The likelihood of any such error or misappropriation may increase as we accelerate the speed at which we process transactions. The systems supporting our business are comprised of multiple technology platforms that are sometimes difficult to scale. If 
we are unable to effectively manage our systems and processes, or if there is an error in our products, we may be unable to process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely manner, which may harm our reputation, the willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results. In our payments processing service business, if merchants for whom we process payment transactions are unable to pay refunds due to their customers in connection with disputed or fraudulent merchant transactions, we may be required to pay those amounts and our payments may exceed the amount of the customer reserves we have established to make such payments.
Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our customers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our products and our underlying technical infrastructure. As we continue to grow our online services, we become more dependent on the continuing operation and availability of our information technology and communications systems and those of our external service providers, including, for example, third-party Internet-based or cloud computing services. We do not have redundancy for all of our systems, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. We have designed a significant portion of our software and computer systems to utilize data processing and storage capabilities provided by public cloud providers, such as Amazon Web Services. If any public cloud service that we use is unavailable to us for any reason, our customers may not be able to access certain of our cloud products or features, which could significantly impact our operations, business, and financial results.
Our tax businesses must effectively handle extremely heavy customer demand during critical peak periods from January until April of each year. We face significant risks in maintaining adequate service levels during these peak periods when we derive a substantial portion of our overall revenue from the tax businesses. Any interruptions in our online tax preparation or electronic filing service at any time during the tax season, particularly during a peak period, could result in significantly decreased revenue, lost customers, unexpected refunds of customer charges, negative publicity and increased operating costs, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We rely on internal systems and external systems maintained by manufacturers, distributors and other service providers to take and fulfill customer orders, handle customer service requests and host certain online activities. Any interruption or failure of our internal or external systems may prevent us or our service providers from accepting and fulfilling customer orders or cause company and customer data to be unintentionally disclosed. Our continuing efforts to upgrade and expand our network security and other information systems as well as our high-availability capabilities may be costly, and problems with the design or implementation of system enhancements may harm our business and our results of operations. 
Our business operations, data centers, information technology and communications systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, human error, malicious attacks, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. In addition, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults. In the event of a major natural or man-made disaster, our insurance coverage may not completely compensate us for our losses and our future financial results may be materially harmed.
We rely on our network and data center infrastructure and internal technology systems for many of our development, marketing, operational, support, sales, accounting and financial reporting activities. We are continually investing resources to update and improve these systems and environments in order to meet existing needs, as well as the growing and changing requirements of our business and customers. If we experience prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in updating and upgrading our systems and architecture, we may experience outages and may not be able to deliver certain offerings and develop new offerings and enhancements that we need to remain competitive. Such improvements and upgrades are often complex, costly and time consuming. In addition, such improvements can be challenging to integrate with our existing technology systems, or may uncover problems with our existing technology systems. Unsuccessful implementation of hardware or software updates and improvements could result in outages, disruption in our business operations, loss of revenue or damage to our reputation.
Our growth is increasingly dependent on the strength of our business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, manage and maintain new and existing relationships with third-party partners. We rely on various third-party partners, including software and service providers, suppliers, vendors, manufacturers, distributors, accountants, contractors, financial 
Although we have strict standards for our suppliers and business partners to comply with the law and company policies regarding workplace and employment practices, data use and security, environmental compliance, intellectual property licensing and other applicable regulatory and compliance requirements, we cannot control their day-to-day practices. If any of them violate laws or implement practices regarded as unethical, we could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation.
In particular, we have relationships with banks, credit unions and other financial institutions that support certain critical services we offer to our customers. If macroeconomic conditions or other factors cause any of these institutions to fail, consolidate, stop providing certain services or institute cost-cutting efforts, our business and financial results may suffer and we may be unable to offer those services to our customers.
We increasingly utilize the distribution platforms of third parties like Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play Store for the distribution of certain of our product offerings. Although we benefit from the strong brand recognition and large user base of these distribution platforms to attract new customers, the platform owners have wide discretion to change the pricing structure, terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers. Any adverse changes by these third parties could adversely affect our financial results. 
Because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth.
Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of our executive team, and those in technical and other key positions. Experienced personnel in the software, mobile technologies, data science, data security, and software as a service industries are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in California and India, where the majority of our employees are located. Also, as we strive to continue to adapt to technological change and introduce new and enhanced products and business models, we must be able to secure, maintain and develop the right quality and quantity of engaged and committed talent. The incentives we have available to attract, retain, and motivate employees provided by our equity awards may become less effective, and if we were to issue significant equity to attract additional employees, the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted. Although we strive to be an employer of choice, we may not be able to continue to successfully attract, retain and develop key personnel, which may cause our business to suffer.
All of our tax products and many of our non-tax products have rigid development timetables that increase the risk of errors in our products and the risk of launch delays. Our tax preparation software product development cycle is particularly challenging due to the need to incorporate unpredictable and potentially late tax law and tax form changes each year and because our customers expect high levels of accuracy and a timely launch of these products to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing deadline. Due to the complexity of our products and the condensed development cycles under which we operate, our products may contain errors that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the software or result in incorrect calculations. The complexity of the tax laws on which our products are based may also make it difficult for us to consistently deliver offerings that contain the features, functionality and level of accuracy that our customers expect. When we encounter problems we may be required to modify our code, work with state tax administrators to communicate with affected customers, assist customers with amendments, distribute patches to customers who have already purchased the product and recall or repackage existing product inventory in our distribution channels. If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products either late in our development cycle or after release it may cause us to delay our product launch date or suspend product availability until such issues can be fixed. Any major defects, launch delays or product suspensions may lead to loss of customers and revenue, negative publicity, customer and employee dissatisfaction, reduced retailer shelf space and promotions, and increased operating expenses, such as inventory replacement costs, legal fees or other payments, including those resulting from our accuracy guarantee in our tax preparation products. For example, an error in our tax products could cause a compliance error for taxpayers, including the over or underpayment of their federal or state tax liability. While our accuracy guarantee commits us to reimburse penalties and interest paid by customers due solely to calculation errors in our tax preparation products, such errors may result in additional burdens on third parties that we may need to address or that may cause us to suspend the availability of our products until such errors are addressed. This could also affect our reputation, the 
willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results. Further, as we develop our platform to connect people to experts, such as connecting TurboTax customers with tax experts through our TurboTax Live offering, or connecting QuickBooks customers with bookkeepers through our QuickBooks Live offering, we face the risk that these experts may provide advice that is erroneous, ineffective or otherwise unsuitable. Any such deficiency in the advice given by these experts may cause harm to our customers, a loss of customer confidence in our offerings or harm to our reputation or financial results.
•compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and laws and regulations of other jurisdictions prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials and other third parties;
Violations of the rapidly evolving and complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions or sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and may result in harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Legal and compliance risks arise from change in the government and regulatory environment, including complex and evolving regulations relating privacy and data security; potential litigation; regulatory inquiries and intellectual property infringement claims. 
Increased government regulation of our businesses, or changes to existing regulations, may harm our operating results.
The Company is subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that affect the Company’s activities, including, without limitation, areas of labor, advertising, tax, financial services, data privacy and security, electronic funds transfer, money transmission, lending, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, intellectual property ownership and infringement, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety, and other regulated activities. There have been significant new regulations and heightened focus by the government on many of these areas, as well as in areas such as insurance and privacy. As we expand our products and services and revise our business models, both domestically and internationally, we may become subject to additional government regulation or increased regulatory scrutiny. Further, regulators (both in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions in which we operate) may adopt new laws or regulations, change existing regulations, or their interpretation of existing laws or regulations may differ from ours. 
The tax preparation industry continues to receive heightened attention from federal and state governments. New legislation, regulation, public policy considerations, changes in the cybersecurity environment, litigation by the government or private 
Complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulation regarding privacy and data protection could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations or otherwise harm our business. 
Regulations related to the provision of online services is evolving as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new, or modify existing laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage, transfer and use of data. This includes, for example, the EU's new regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the new California Consumer Protection Act (CCPA), which will become effective on January 1, 2020. In our efforts to meet the GDPR, CCPA and other data privacy regulations, we have made and continue to make certain operational changes to our products and business practices. If we are unable to engineer products that meet these evolving requirements or help our customers meet their obligations under these or other new data regulations, we might experience reduced demand for our offerings. Further, penalties for non-compliance with these laws may be significant. 
In addition, there are global privacy treaties and frameworks that have created compliance uncertainty and increased complexity. For example, the European Commission and the Swiss Government approved the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks, respectively, that provide a mechanism for companies to legally transfer personal data from the EU and Switzerland to the U.S. However, these frameworks as well as other personal data transfer mechanisms face a number of legal challenges, both by regulators and private parties. A change in these transfer mechanisms could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. 
Other governmental authorities throughout the U.S. and around the world are considering similar types of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. Each of these privacy, security and data protection laws and regulations could impose significant limitations, require changes to our business, require notification to customers or workers of a security breach, restrict our use or storage of personal information, or cause changes in customer purchasing behavior which may make our business more costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future products or services, which may make customers less likely to purchase our products and may harm our future financial results. Additionally, any actual or alleged noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in negative publicity and subject us to investigations, claims or other remedies, including demands that we modify or cease existing business practices, and expose us to significant fines, penalties and other damages. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with existing privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations.
We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services.
The laws relating to the liability of online services companies for information such as online content disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges. In spite of settled law in the U.S., claims are made against online services companies by parties who disagree with the content. Where our online content is accessed on the internet outside of the U.S., challenges may be brought under foreign laws which do not provide the same protections for online services companies as in the U.S. These challenges in either U.S. or foreign jurisdictions may give rise to legal claims alleging defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through the services. Certain of our services include content generated by users of our online services. Although this content is not generated by us, claims of defamation or other injury may be made against us for that content. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability may harm our business.
Like many software companies we refund customers for product returns and subscription cancellations. We establish reserves against revenue in our financial statements based on estimated customer refunds. We closely monitor this refund activity in an effort to maintain adequate reserves. In the past, customer refunds have not differed significantly from these reserves. However, if we experience actual customer refunds that significantly exceed the amount we have reserved, it may result in lower net revenue.
We provide capital to small businesses, which exposes us to certain risk, and may cause us material financial or reputational harm.
We provide capital to qualified small businesses, which exposes us to the risk of our borrowers’ inability to repay such loans. We have also entered into credit arrangements with financial institutions to obtain the capital we provide under this offering. Any termination or interruption in the financial institutions’ ability to lend to us could interrupt our ability to provide capital to qualified small businesses. Further, our credit decisioning, pricing, loss forecasting and scoring models used to evaluate loan applications may contain errors or may not adequately assess creditworthiness of our borrowers, or may be otherwise ineffective, resulting in incorrect approvals or denials of loans. It is also possible that loan applicants could provide false or incorrect information. While we have not incurred any material losses to date, if any of the foregoing events were to occur, our reputation and relationships with borrowers, and our financial results, could be harmed.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets and impairment charges may cause significant fluctuation in our net income.
Our acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization and impairment of acquired technology and other acquired intangible assets, and impairment of goodwill. Total costs and expenses in these categories were $26 million in fiscal 2019; $21 million in fiscal 2018; and $14 million in fiscal 2017. Although under current accounting rules goodwill is not amortized, we may incur impairment charges related to the goodwill already recorded and to goodwill arising out of future acquisitions. We test the impairment of goodwill annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. The timing of the formal annual test may result in charges to our statement of operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that may not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods. At October 31, 2019, we had $1.7 billion in goodwill and $49 million in net acquired intangible assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheet, both of which may be subject to impairment charges in the future. New acquisitions, and any impairment of the value of acquired intangible assets, may have a significant negative impact on our future financial results.
As of October 31, 2019, we had an aggregate of $423 million of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities. We may incur additional debt in the future.
•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and our industries.
Our current unsecured and secured revolving credit facilities impose restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, our short- and long-term debt includes covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. If we breach any of the covenants under our short- and long-term debt or our unsecured revolving credit facility and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable.
In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under our unsecured revolving credit facility or our secured term loan may increase. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing.
We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value.
We have a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase our common stock. The repurchase programs do not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares. Our repurchase programs may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value. Also, the amount, timing, and execution of our stock repurchase programs may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposes and because of changes in cash flows, tax laws, and the market price of our common stock.
