The industry in which we operate is dynamic and highly competitive, and we expect it to remain so in the future. The markets for software and related services, especially highly-available connected services, are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Competitive interest and expertise in many of the markets we serve have grown markedly over the past few years and we expect this trend to continue. There are also large, cloud-based service companies who innovate quickly and serve small businesses and consumers. While today our competition with such companies may be limited, as we and those companies grow, our competition with them may increase. In recent years the widespread availability of the Internet, the emergence of mobile devices, and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that people throughout the world manage important financial tasks. The result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are paper-based, human-produced, and brick-and-mortar bound, to one where people understand, demand, and embrace the benefits of connected services. This trend toward connected services is the primary driver of the strategies in all of our businesses.
As we continue transitioning to offer more connected services, the ongoing operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our 
information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole, for each reportable segment, and for product lines within each reportable segment; operating income growth and operating income margins for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below. These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention for all of our businesses and transaction volume for our payment processing business. Total credit and debit card transaction volume correlates strongly with the macroeconomic environment and is one of the key drivers of revenue growth in our payment processing business. Customers for our connected services offerings have generally grown faster than those for our traditional desktop software offerings, reflecting our strategic focus on connected services over the past few years. Connected services (total service and other revenue) generated $3.8 billion or 73% of our total revenue in fiscal 2017. We expect connected services revenue as a percentage of our total revenue to continue to grow in the future. 
Operating income decreased 9% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2017. Operating income in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was impacted by higher costs and expenses, including higher spending for staffing, outside services, advertising and other marketing programs, and share-based compensation. See “Operating Expenses” later in this Item 2 for more information.
We recorded a net loss of $21 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to net income of $13 million for the same quarter of fiscal 2017 due to the decrease in operating income described above and a $39 million tax charge related to the re-measurement of our net deferred tax asset balance as a result of the enactment of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"). This charge was partially offset by tax benefits related to share-based compensation expense. See “Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes” later in this Item 2 for more information. Net loss per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $0.08 compared to net income per share of $0.05 in the same quarter of fiscal 2017.
Operating loss decreased 5% for the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017. Operating loss in the first six months of fiscal 2018 was impacted by the increase in revenue described above partially offset by higher costs and expenses, including higher spending for staffing, outside services, advertising and other marketing programs, and share-based compensation. See “Operating Expenses” later in this Item 2 for more information.
We recorded a net loss of $38 million for the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to a net loss of $17 million for the same period of fiscal 2017. The net loss for the first six months of fiscal 2018 includes a $39 million tax charge related to the re-measurement of our net deferred tax asset balance as a result of the enactment of the Tax Act. This charge was partially offset by tax benefits related to share-based compensation expense. See “Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes” later in this Item 2 for more information. Net loss per share for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $0.15 compared $0.07 in the same period a year ago.
The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments. See “Executive Overview – About Intuit” earlier in this Item 2 and Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. All of our segments operate primarily in the United States and sell primarily to customers in the United States. International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented.
Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. See “Executive Overview – Industry Trends and Seasonality” earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business. Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative expenses, and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $747 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018 and $649 million in the first six months of fiscal 2017. Unallocated costs increased in the fiscal 2018 period due to increased corporate product development and selling and marketing expenses in support of the growth of our businesses and higher share-based compensation expenses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. See Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented.
We calculate revenue growth rates and segment operating margin figures using dollars in thousands. Those results may vary slightly from figures calculated using the dollars in millions presented below.
Product revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks Desktop software products, including Desktop Pro, Desktop for Mac, Desktop Premier, and Enterprise; QuickBooks Basic Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll; QuickBooks Point of Sale solutions; ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses; and financial supplies.
Service and other revenue is derived primarily from our QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Self-Employed financial and business management offerings; QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise with Hosting, our subscription offerings; QuickBooks Enterprise term licenses and QuickBooks technical support plans; small business payroll services, including QuickBooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll, and Intuit Full Service Payroll; and payment processing services for small businesses.
Online Ecosystem revenue increased 39% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and 37% in the first six months of fiscal 2018. The revenue growth in both periods was driven by customer acquisition. At January 31, 2018 QuickBooks Online subscribers were 2.8 million, up 51% compared with the same point in time a year ago. Online Services revenue increased 21% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and increased 18% in the first six months of fiscal 2018 due to customer growth in online payroll and payments.
Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased 9% in both the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 driven by growth in QuickBooks Enterprise subscribers and average revenue per customer. QuickBooks Desktop units declined 15% and 24% in those periods.
Product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software.
Service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online tax return preparation services and electronic tax filing services.
Total Consumer segment revenue increased $40 million or 11% in the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017, primarily driven by an increase in average revenue per customer. Revenue growth in the fiscal 2018 period was partially impacted by a later opening of the tax season, with the IRS accepting returns on January 29, as compared to January 23 last year. Because of the seasonality of our Consumer revenue, we do not believe that revenue in our Consumer segment in the first six months of fiscal 2018 is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2017 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Consumer segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased slightly in the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period of fiscal 2017. The higher revenue described above was offset by higher expenses including staffing, advertising, and other marketing programs.
Product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products.
Service and other revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax return preparation, bank products, and related services that complement the tax return preparation process.
The Strategic Partner segment targets professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. 
Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue decreased in the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 related to lower production and support costs associated with our QuickBooks desktop offerings. We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred. Additionally, product revenue in the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased over the same period of fiscal 2017 as a result of the continued amortization of revenue for our QuickBooks desktop offerings.
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased slightly to 77% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 from 78% in the same quarter of fiscal 2017. Total net revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased $149 million or 15% while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $111 million. Operating expenses increased about $45 million for higher advertising and other marketing programs, $33 million for staffing expenses due to higher headcount, and $14 million for outside services. 
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue was flat in the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period of fiscal 2017. Total net revenue for the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased $257 million or 14% while total operating expenses for that period increased $202 million. Operating expenses increased about $77 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount, $52 million for advertising and other marketing programs, and $32 million for outside services.
On December 22, 2017 the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118), which provides guidance for companies that are not able to complete their accounting for the income tax effects of the Act in the period of enactment. The guidance allows us to record provisional amounts to the extent a reasonable estimate can be made and provides us with up to one year from enactment date to finalize accounting for the impacts of the Tax Act. Since the Tax Act was passed in Intuit’s second quarter, the deferred tax re-measurements and other items are considered provisional due to the forthcoming guidance and ongoing analysis of the final year-end data and tax positions. The analysis is expected to be completed within the 12-month measurement period in accordance with SAB 118.
We recorded a tax provision of $40 million on income of $19 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018. As a result of the lower enacted tax rate, the tax provision for the three months ended January 31, 2018 includes a charge of $4 million to reduce the tax benefit recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 which was calculated at the higher effective tax rate. We recorded a tax benefit of $2 million on a loss of $40 million for the six months ended January 31, 2018. Excluding the $4 million charge and the discrete tax items primarily related to the re-measurement of our net deferred tax asset balance and the share-based compensation tax benefits mentioned above, our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended January 31, 2018 was 27% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 26.9%. See Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report for more information. 
the federal statutory rate of 35%. See Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report for more information. 
At January 31, 2018, our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $726 million, a slight decrease compared to July 31, 2017 due to the factors discussed under “Statements of Cash Flows” below. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, and borrowings under our credit facility. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs and debt repayment, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in “Executive Overview – Industry Trends and Seasonality” earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future.
We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so during the balance of fiscal 2018. Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $726 million at January 31, 2018, none of those funds were restricted, and approximately 66% of those funds were located in the U.S. Our unsecured revolving credit facility is available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and stock repurchases. At January 31, 2018, $640 million was outstanding under the revolving credit facility. We intend to repay the outstanding balance during the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs.
The following table summarizes selected items from our statements of cash flows for the first six months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017. See the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for complete statements of cash flows for those periods.
As described in Note 8 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first six months of fiscal 2018 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At January 31, 2018, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $1.3 billion for stock repurchases. We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018 we also continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. In February 2018 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.39 per share of outstanding common stock payable on April 18, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 10, 2018. We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it.
The master credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. We remained in compliance with these covenants at all times during the quarter ended January 31, 2018.
We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2017 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. On September 13, 2017 we signed an agreement that includes a minimum purchase commitment of $450 million through August 31, 2022. There were no other significant changes to our contractual obligations during the first six months of fiscal 2018.
In connection with our purchase of all the outstanding equity of TSheets.com, LLC ("TSheets") on January 10, 2018, we issued 75,528 shares of our common stock to certain of the equity holders of TSheets. These shares of our common stock were unregistered and issued pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Intuit common stock issued at the closing of the acquisition had an aggregate value of approximately $12.35 million and was subject to certain vesting restrictions tied to employment.
