Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services. We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers.
Our flagship brands, QuickBooks and TurboTax, help customers run their small businesses, pay employees and bills, separate business and personal expenses, track their money, and file income taxes. ProSeries and Lacerte are our leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants. Incorporated in 1984 and headquartered in Mountain View, California, we sell our products and services primarily in the United States.
These condensed consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Intuit and its wholly owned subsidiaries. We have eliminated all significant intercompany balances and transactions in consolidation. We have included all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, which we considered necessary for a fair presentation of our financial results for the interim periods presented. We have reclassified certain amounts previously reported in our financial statements to conform to the current presentation, including amounts related to reportable segments. See Note 10, “Segment Information,” for more information.
As discussed in Note 4, we acquired TSheets.com LLC, Exactor, Inc., and Applatix, Inc. in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. We have included the results of operations for these companies in our consolidated results of operations from the dates of acquisition. See Note 4, “Business Combinations,” for more information.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017. Results for the nine months ended April 30, 2018 do not necessarily indicate the results we expect for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2018 or any other future period.
Our Consumer offerings have significant seasonal patterns and revenue from those income tax preparation products and services is heavily concentrated in our third fiscal quarter ending April 30.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017. There have been no changes to our significant accounting policies during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
We compute basic net income or loss per share using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. We compute diluted net income per share using the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive potential common shares consist of the shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and upon the vesting of restricted stock units (RSUs) under the treasury stock method.
We include stock options with combined exercise prices and unrecognized compensation expense that are less than the average market price for our common stock, and RSUs with unrecognized compensation expense that is less than the average market price for our common stock, in the calculation of diluted net income per share. We exclude stock options with combined exercise prices and unrecognized compensation expense that are greater than the average market price for our common stock, and RSUs with unrecognized compensation expense that is greater than the average market price for our common stock, from the calculation of diluted net income per share because their effect is anti-dilutive. Under the treasury stock method, the amount that must be paid to exercise stock options and the amount of compensation expense for future service that we have not yet recognized for stock options and RSUs are assumed to be used to repurchase shares.
All of the RSUs we grant have dividend rights. Dividend rights are accumulated and paid when the underlying RSUs vest. Since the dividend rights are subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying equity awards they are considered a contingent transfer of value. Consequently, the RSUs are not considered participating securities and we do not present them separately in earnings per share. 
In loss periods, basic net loss per share and diluted net loss per share are the same since the effect of potential common shares is anti-dilutive and therefore excluded.
No customer accounted for 10% or more of total net revenue in the three or nine months ended April 30, 2018 or April 30, 2017. No customer accounted for 10% or more of gross accounts receivable at April 30, 2018 or July 31, 2017.
reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years, which means that it will be effective for us in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2017-04 on our consolidated financial statements.
Financial Instruments - In June 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326).” This new standard requires the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years, which means that it will be effective for us in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2020. Earlier adoption is permitted in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
Leases - In February 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” This new standard amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years, which means that it will be effective for us in the first quarter of our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. This standard is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective approach. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of ASU 2016-02 on our consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition - In May 2014 the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)”. This new standard supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. Under the new standard, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 defines a five step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible that more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than is required under present U.S. GAAP. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. The new standard also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. The new standard is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, which means that it is effective for us beginning August 1, 2018.
The most significant impact of the standard relates to the timing and amount of revenue recognized for our QuickBooks Desktop solutions and our consumer and professional tax desktop solutions. Our QuickBooks Desktop solutions include both packaged software products and software subscriptions.
Our QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions include a software license, version protection, enhancements, support and various connected services. Under the current standard, we recognize revenue for our QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions ratably over the subscription term, which is generally one year. Under the new standard, we will recognize revenue for the software license and version protection at the time they are delivered and will recognize revenue for support 
With respect to our consumer and professional tax desktop solutions, under the current standard, we recognize all revenue related to the desktop solutions as services are provided. Under the new standard, we will recognize revenue for the desktop tax preparation software license and related tax form updates as they are delivered. We will recognize revenue for our electronic filing and connected services as those services are provided. As sales and delivery of desktop tax preparation software solutions are concentrated from November through April, we expect the timing of the related desktop revenue for our Consumer and Strategic Partner reporting segments to shift to earlier quarters within each fiscal year as a result of these changes.
Due to the upfront recognition of our QuickBooks Desktop solutions and the shift in timing related to the desktop revenue for our Consumer and Strategic Partner segments, upon adoption, we will remove a portion of our deferred revenue from our liabilities through a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings.
Under Topic 606 we do not expect our annual total and reporting segment revenue growth rates to be significantly different as compared to growth rates under the current standard.
Under the new standard, we are required to recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year. We have determined that certain sales commissions meet the requirements to be capitalized. The total capitalized costs to obtain a contact will be included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets on our consolidated balance sheets upon adoption. We do not expect the deferral of incremental commission costs to be material.
We do not expect that any other recently issued accounting pronouncements will have a significant effect on our financial statements.
The authoritative guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market for an asset or liability and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. In addition, we consider and use all valuation methods that are appropriate in estimating the fair value of an asset or liability.
•Level 1 uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 uses inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable through correlation with market data. These include quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and inputs to valuation models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment because the inputs used in the model, such as interest rates and volatility, can be corroborated by readily observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
•Level 3 uses one or more unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the determination of fair value. Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar valuation techniques and significant management judgment or estimation.
The following table summarizes financial assets and financial liabilities that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at the dates indicated, classified in accordance with the fair value hierarchy described above. 
The following table summarizes our cash equivalents, time deposits, and available-for-sale debt securities by balance sheet classification and level in the fair value hierarchy at the dates indicated.
We value our Level 1 assets, consisting primarily of money market funds and savings deposit accounts, using quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments. Financial assets whose fair values we measure on a recurring basis using Level 2 inputs consist of municipal bonds, corporate notes, U.S. agency securities, and time deposits. We measure the fair values of these assets with the help of a pricing service that either provides quoted market prices in active markets for identical or similar securities or uses observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure that we record appropriate fair values for our Level 2 investments. These controls include comparison to pricing provided by a secondary pricing service or investment manager, validation of pricing sources and models, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period price fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. 
Financial assets whose fair values we measure using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs consist of municipal auction rate securities that are no longer liquid. We estimate the fair values of the auction rate securities using a discounted cash flow model. We continue to classify them as long-term investments based on the maturities of the underlying securities at that date. We do not intend to sell our municipal auction rate securities. In addition, it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell them before recovery at par, which may be at maturity.
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and funds held for customers by balance sheet classification at the dates indicated. 
The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and funds held for customers by investment category at the dates indicated. 
We accumulate unrealized gains and losses on our available-for-sale debt securities, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss in the stockholders’ equity section of our balance sheets. Gross unrealized gains and losses on our available-for-sale debt securities at April 30, 2018 and July 31, 2017 were not significant.
The following table summarizes our available-for-sale debt securities classified by the stated maturity date of the security at the dates indicated.
Under the acquisition method of accounting we allocated the fair value of the total combined purchase consideration of $385 million to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the dates of acquisition. The fair values assigned to the identifiable intangible assets acquired were based on estimates and assumptions determined by management. We recorded the excess of consideration over the aggregate fair values as goodwill which is primarily attributable to expected synergies from future growth. Using information available at the time the acquisitions closed, we allocated approximately $5 million of the total combined purchase consideration to net tangible assets and approximately $62 million to identified intangible assets which are being amortized over a weighted average life of four years. The identified intangible assets include $38 million for purchased technology, $17 million for customer lists, and $7 million for covenants not to compete. We recorded the excess combined purchase consideration of approximately $318 million as goodwill, none of which is deductible for income tax purposes.
The balances of several of our other current liabilities, particularly our reserves for product returns and promotional discounts and rebates, are affected by the seasonality of our business. See Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Seasonality,” for more information.
We describe our operating lease commitments and purchase obligations in Note 8 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017. On September 13, 2017 we signed an agreement that includes a minimum purchase commitment of $450 million through August 31, 2022. There were no other significant changes in our operating lease commitments or purchase obligations during the nine months ended April 30, 2018.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017 and reduces the U.S. statutory federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. The effective date of the tax rate change was January 1, 2018. With our fiscal year ending July 31, the change will result in a blended lower U.S. statutory federal rate of 26.9% for fiscal year 2018. As a result, we adjusted our annual effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018, as well as adjusted our U.S. net deferred tax asset balance at the lower rates.
As of April 30, 2018, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Tax Act; however, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances. We recorded a provisional charge of $39 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 related to the re-measurement of certain deferred tax balances. During the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded an additional provisional charge of $5 million related to the re-measurement of deferred tax balances, resulting in a total tax expense of $44 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2018.
On December 22, 2017 the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118), which provides guidance for companies that are not able to complete their accounting for the income tax effects of the Act in the period of enactment. The guidance allows us to record provisional amounts to the extent a reasonable estimate can be made and provides us with up to one year from enactment date to finalize accounting for the impacts of the Tax Act. Since the Tax Act was passed in Intuit’s second quarter, the deferred tax re-measurements and other items are considered provisional due to the forthcoming guidance and ongoing analysis of the final year-end data and tax positions. The analysis is expected to be completed within the 12-month measurement period in accordance with SAB 118.
For the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $8 million and $41 million in our provision for income taxes. For the three and nine months ended April 30, 2017, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $12 million and $38 million in our provision for income taxes.
Our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018 was approximately 26% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 26.9%.
The total amount of our unrecognized tax benefits at July 31, 2017 was $61 million. Net of related deferred tax assets, unrecognized tax benefits were $38 million at that date. If we were to recognize these net benefits, our income tax expense would reflect a favorable net impact of $38 million. There were no material changes to these amounts during the nine months ended April 30, 2018. The impacts of the Tax Act are not material for the unrecognized tax benefits. We do not believe that it is reasonably possible that there will be a significant increase or decrease in our unrecognized tax benefits over the next 12 months.
Intuit’s Board of Directors has authorized a series of common stock repurchase programs. Shares of common stock repurchased under these programs become treasury shares. We repurchased 1.9 million shares for $272 million under these programs during the nine months ended April 30, 2018. At April 30, 2018, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $1.2 billion for stock repurchases. Future stock repurchases under the current programs are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
Our treasury shares are repurchased at the market price on the trade date; accordingly, all amounts paid to reacquire these shares have been recorded as treasury stock on our balance sheets. Repurchased shares of our common stock are held as treasury shares until they are reissued or retired. When we reissue treasury stock, if the proceeds from the sale are more than the average price we paid to acquire the shares we record an increase in additional paid-in capital. Conversely, if the proceeds from the sale are less than the average price we paid to acquire the shares, we record a decrease in additional paid-in capital to the extent of increases previously recorded for similar transactions and a decrease in retained earnings for any remaining amount.
In the past we have satisfied option exercises and restricted stock unit vesting under our employee equity incentive plans by reissuing treasury shares, and we may do so again in the future. During the second quarter of fiscal 2014 we began issuing new shares of common stock to satisfy option exercises and RSU vesting under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. We have not yet determined the ultimate disposition of the shares that we have repurchased in the past, and consequently we continue to hold them as treasury shares.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2018 we declared quarterly cash dividends that totaled $1.17 per share of outstanding common stock or $304 million. In May 2018 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.39 per share of outstanding common stock payable on July 18, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 10, 2018. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.
The following table summarizes the total share-based compensation expense that we recorded in operating income for the periods shown.
At April 30, 2018, there was approximately $50 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock options with a weighted average vesting period of 1.8 years. We will adjust unrecognized compensation cost for actual forfeitures as they occur.
At April 30, 2018, there was approximately $509 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs with a weighted average vesting period of 2.0 years. We will adjust unrecognized compensation cost for actual forfeitures as they occur.
In fiscal 2015 Intuit was contacted by certain state and federal regulatory authorities in connection with inquiries regarding an increase during the 2015 tax season in attempts by criminals using stolen identity information to file fraudulent tax returns and claim refunds. Intuit provided information in response to those inquiries. A consolidated putative class action lawsuit was filed by individuals who claim to have suffered damages in connection with the 2015 events. We believe that the allegations in that lawsuit are without merit, and we intend to vigorously defend against them.
We have defined our three reportable segments, described below, based on factors such as how we manage our operations and how our chief operating decision maker views results. We define the chief operating decision maker as our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. Our chief operating decision maker organizes and manages our business primarily on the basis of product and service offerings.
All of our segments operate primarily in the United States and sell primarily to customers in the United States. International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented.
We include expenses such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative expenses and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments, in unallocated corporate items. Unallocated corporate items also include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges.
The accounting policies of our reportable segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017 and in Note 1, "Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Significant Accounting Policies" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Except for goodwill and purchased intangible assets, we do not generally track assets by reportable segment and, consequently, we do not disclose total assets by reportable segment.
The following table shows our financial results by reportable segment for the periods indicated. Segment results for fiscal 2017 have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2018 segment presentation, as described earlier in this footnote.
We face intense competitive pressures that may harm our operating results.
We face intense competition in all of our businesses, and we expect competition to remain intense in the future. Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups. Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market with new products and services. In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers. 
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models and monetization strategies, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses. In order to compete, we have also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers as effectively as competitors with different business models. In addition, we may not be able to monetize our free offerings if other providers of free offerings provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for Intuit’s products and services may elect to use our competitors’ free offerings instead. These competitive factors may diminish our revenue and profitability, and harm our ability to acquire and retain customers.
Our consumer tax business also faces significant competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities proposing revenue strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense. These or similar programs may be introduced or expanded in the future, which may change the voluntary compliance tax system in ways that could cause us to lose customers and revenue. The IRS Free File Program is currently the sole means by which the IRS offers tax software to taxpayers, and as part of the program the IRS has agreed it will not offer a competing service. Under this program, the IRS has worked with private industry to provide more than 50 million free returns since 2003, utilizing donated private sector tax software and e-filing services for low and middle income taxpayers at no cost to users or the government. However, its continuation depends on a number of factors, including increasing public awareness of and access to the free program, as well as continued government support. The current agreement is scheduled to expire in October 2020. If the Free File Program were to be terminated and the IRS were to enter the software development and return preparation space, the federal government would become a direct competitor of the U.S. tax services industry and of Intuit, which could potentially have material and adverse revenue implications. 
Online offerings, desktop software and mobile technology industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. As we continue to grow our online, mobile, and other 
offerings, we must continue to innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer needs and attract and retain talented software developers. We need to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies, which require us to devote significant resources.
Our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services. As our existing products mature, encouraging customers to purchase product upgrades becomes more challenging unless new product releases provide features and functionality that have meaningful incremental value. We also provide additional customer benefits by utilizing customer data available to us through our existing offerings. If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the value of new or upgraded products or services to our customers, or effectively utilize our customers’ data, our revenues may be harmed. In addition, as we continue to introduce and expand our new business models, including offerings that are free to end users, we may be unsuccessful in monetizing or increasing customer adoption of these offerings or our risk profile may change, resulting in loss of revenue.
The number of people who access products and services through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, and handheld computers such as tablets, continues to increase. We have devoted significant resources to develop products and services for users of these alternative devices, but the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compelling to users. Even if we are able to attract new users through these mobile offerings, the amount of revenue that we derive per user from mobile offerings may be less than the revenue that we have historically derived from users of personal computers. As new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our products and services for use on these alternative devices and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such offerings. If we are slow to develop products and technologies that are compatible with these alternative devices, or if our competitors are able to achieve those results more quickly than us, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services, which could adversely affect our business.
We rely on third-party intellectual property in our products and services.
Some of our offerings include third-party software that is licensed under so-called “open source” licenses, some of which may include a requirement that, under certain circumstances, we make available, or grant licenses to, any modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software. Although we have established internal review and approval processes to mitigate these risks, we may not be sure that all open source software is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source may not be eliminated, and may, if not properly addressed, harm our business.
Policing unauthorized use and copying of our products is difficult, expensive, and time consuming. Current U.S. laws that prohibit copying give us only limited practical protection from software piracy and the laws of many other countries provide very little protection. We frequently encounter unauthorized copies of our software being sold through online marketplaces. Although we continue to evaluate and put in place technology solutions to attempt to lessen the impact of piracy and engage 
in efforts to educate consumers and public policy leaders on these issues and cooperate with industry groups in their efforts to combat piracy, we expect piracy to be a persistent problem that results in lost revenues and increased expenses.
Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.
•in the case of foreign acquisitions and investments, the impact of particular economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.
offerings; fraudulent activities by third parties; relationships with third parties; competition for and retention of key talent; issues with our product launches; problems with our information technology infrastructure; and risks associated with operating internationally.
We host, collect, use and retain large amounts of sensitive and personal customer and employee information and data, including credit card information, tax return information, bank account numbers, login credentials and passwords, personal and business financial data and transactions, social security numbers, healthcare information and payroll information, as well as confidential, nonpublic business information. We use commercially available security technologies to protect this information and data, and we also use security and business controls to limit access to and use of such sensitive information and data. Although we expend significant resources to create security protections that shield our, and our customers', data against potential theft and security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. We have experienced instances in the past where criminals, using stolen identity information obtained outside of our systems, have gained unauthorized and illegal access to our customers’ data. As the accessibility of stolen identity information increases, we may experience additional instances of unauthorized and illegal access to our systems using our customers’ stolen identity information in the future. Further, because we have created an ecosystem where customers can have one identity across multiple products, a security breach may give access to increased amounts of customer data. In addition, third parties may fraudulently induce employees, customers, or users to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our systems, which host our, and our customers’, sensitive data. The security measures that we implement may not be able to prevent access to our systems from unauthorized users who have fraudulently obtained our customers’ personal information. In addition, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently, becoming more sophisticated and are often not able to be detected until after a successful attack, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. 
Our technologies, systems, and networks, and those of our third parties and customers have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs and other information security incidents that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our customers’ or employees’ sensitive and personal information and data or Intuit's sensitive business data. These attacks could also disrupt our or our customers’ or other third parties’ business operations. These types of attacks can be made by individuals, groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states themselves. Customers that fail to update their systems, continue to run software that we no longer support or that fail to install security patches on a timely basis make it more difficult for us to detect and prevent these kinds of attacks. Although this is an industry-wide problem that affects software and hardware across platforms, it is increasingly affecting our offerings because cyber-criminals tend to focus their efforts on well-known offerings that are popular among customers and hold sensitive information and we expect them to continue to do so. If these cyber-criminals are able to circumvent our security measures, exploit vulnerabilities in our customers’ devices or customers’ behavior, or if we are unable to detect an intrusion into our systems and contain such intrusion in a reasonable amount of time, our customers’ sensitive and personal information and data may be compromised.
Privacy and cybersecurity concerns relating to online offerings, including our offerings specifically, as well as the external environment generally, and security breaches of third-party offerings, could make our products more vulnerable to fraudulent activity, damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services.
In addition, the continued occurrence of cyber-attacks and data breaches on governments, businesses and consumers in general, indicates that we operate in an external environment where cyber-attacks and data breaches are becoming increasingly common. If the global cybersecurity environment worsens, and there are increased instances of security breaches of third-party offerings where consumers’ data and sensitive information is compromised, consumers may be less willing to use online offerings, particularly offerings like ours where customers often share sensitive financial data. In addition, the increased availability of data obtained as a result of breaches of third-party offerings could make our own products more vulnerable to fraudulent activity. This could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services or lead customers to cease using online and connected software products to transact financial business altogether.
The online tax preparation, payroll administration and online payments industries have been experiencing an increasing amount of fraudulent activities by third parties, and those fraudulent activities are becoming increasingly sophisticated. Although we do not believe that any of this activity is uniquely targeted at our products or business, this type of fraudulent activity may adversely impact our tax, payroll, and payments businesses. In addition to any losses that may result from such fraud, which may be substantial, a loss of confidence by our customers or by governmental agencies in our ability to prevent fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our offerings may seriously harm our business and damage our brand. If we cannot adequately combat such fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our tax offerings, governmental authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to offer such services, which could include federal or state tax authorities refusing to allow us to process our customers’ tax returns electronically, resulting in a significant adverse impact on our earnings and revenue. As fraudulent activities become more pervasive and increasingly sophisticated, and fraud detection and prevention measures must become correspondingly more complex to combat them across the various industries in which we operate, we may implement risk control mechanisms that could make it more difficult for legitimate customers to obtain and use our products, which could result in lost revenue and negatively impact our earnings.
Our operations process a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis, especially in our payroll and payments businesses. Despite our efforts to ensure that effective processing systems and controls are in place to handle transactions appropriately, it is possible that we may make errors or that funds may be misappropriated due to fraud. The systems supporting our business are comprised of multiple technology platforms that are difficult to scale. If we are unable to effectively manage our systems and processes, or if there is an error in our products, we may be unable to process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely manner, which may harm our reputation, the willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results. In our payments processing service business, if merchants for whom we process payment transactions are unable to pay refunds due to their customers in connection with disputed or fraudulent merchant transactions, we may be required to pay those amounts and our payments may exceed the amount of the customer reserves we have established to make such payments.
Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our customers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our products and our underlying technical infrastructure. As we continue to transition our business to more connected services, we become more dependent on the continuing operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers, including, for example, third-party Internet-based or “cloud” computing services. We do not have redundancy for all of our systems, many of our critical applications reside in only one of our data centers, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. In the event of significant system disruption 
Our tax businesses must effectively handle extremely heavy customer demand during critical peak periods from January until April of each year. We face significant risks in maintaining adequate service levels during these peak periods where we derive a substantial portion of our overall revenue from the tax businesses. Any interruptions in our online tax preparation or electronic filing service at any time during the tax season, particularly during a peak period, could result in significantly decreased revenue, lost customers, additional refunds of customer charges, negative publicity and increased operating costs, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We are in the process of migrating our applications and infrastructure to new data centers and to third-party hosted environments. If we do not execute the transition to these new environments in an effective manner, we may experience unplanned service disruptions or unforeseen increases in costs which may harm our operating results and our business. 
We rely on internal systems and external systems maintained by manufacturers, distributors and other service providers to take and fulfill customer orders, handle customer service requests and host certain online activities. Any interruption or failure of our internal or external systems may prevent us or our service providers from accepting and fulfilling customer orders or cause company and customer data to be unintentionally disclosed. Our continuing efforts to upgrade and expand our network security and other information systems as well as our high-availability capabilities may be costly, and problems with the design or implementation of system enhancements may harm our business and our results of operations. 
Our business operations, data centers, information technology and communications systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, human error, malicious attacks, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. In addition, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults. In the event of a major natural or man-made disaster, our insurance coverage may not completely compensate us for our losses and our future financial results may be materially harmed.
Although we have strict standards for our suppliers and business partners to comply with the law and company policies regarding workplace and employment practices, data use and security, environmental compliance, intellectual property licensing and other applicable regulatory and compliance requirements, we cannot control their day-to-day practices. If any of them violate laws or implements practices regarded as unethical, we could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation.
In particular, we have relationships with banks, credit unions and other financial institutions that support certain critical services we offer to our customers. If macroeconomic conditions or other factors cause any of these institutions to fail, consolidate, stop providing certain services or institute cost-cutting efforts, our business and financial results may suffer and we may be unable to offer those services to our customers.
We have also started to increasingly utilize the distribution platforms of third parties like Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play Store for the distribution of certain of our product offerings. Although we benefit from the strong brand recognition and large user base of these distribution platforms to attract new customers, the platform owners have wide discretion to change the pricing structure, terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers. Any adverse changes by these third parties could adversely affect our financial results. 
Because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth.
Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of our executive team, and those in technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel in the software, mobile technologies, data science, data security, and software as a service industries are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in California and India, where the majority of our employees are located. Also, as we strive to continue to adapt to technological change and introduce new and enhanced products and business models, we must be able to secure, maintain and develop the right quality and quantity of engaged and committed talent. The incentives we have available to attract, retain, and motivate employees provided by our equity awards may become less effective, and if we were to issue significant equity to attract additional employees, the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted. Although we strive to be an employer of choice, we may not be able to continue to successfully attract, retain and develop key personnel, which may cause our business to suffer.
All of our tax products and many of our non-tax products have rigid development timetables that increase the risk of errors in our products and the risk of launch delays. Our tax preparation software product development cycle is particularly challenging due to the need to incorporate unpredictable and potentially late tax law and tax form changes each year and because our customers expect high levels of accuracy and a timely launch of these products to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing deadline. Due to the complexity of our products and the condensed development cycles under which we operate, our products may contain errors that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the software or result in incorrect calculations. The complexity of the tax laws on which our products are based may also make it difficult for us to consistently deliver offerings that contain the features, functionality and level of accuracy that our customers expect. When we encounter problems we may be required to modify our code, work with state tax administrators to communicate with affected customers, assist customers with amendments, distribute patches to customers who have already purchased the product and recall or repackage existing product inventory in our distribution channels. If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products either late in our development cycle or after release it may cause us to delay our product launch date or suspend product availability until such issues can be fixed. Any major defects, launch delays or product suspensions may lead to loss of customers and revenue, negative publicity, customer and employee dissatisfaction, reduced retailer shelf space and promotions, and increased operating expenses, such as inventory replacement costs, legal fees or other payments, including those resulting from our accuracy guarantee in our tax preparation products. For example, an error in our tax products could cause a compliance error for taxpayers, including the over or underpayment of their federal or state tax liability. While our accuracy guarantee commits us to reimburse penalties and interest paid by customers due solely to calculation errors in our tax preparation products, such errors may result in additional burdens on third parties that we may need to address or that may cause us to suspend the availability of our products until such errors are addressed. This could also affect our reputation, the willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results.
We rely on our network and data center infrastructure and internal technology systems for many of our development, marketing, operational, support, sales, accounting and financial reporting activities. We are continually investing resources to update and improve these systems and environments in order to meet existing, as well as the growing and changing requirements of our business and customers. If we experience prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in updating and upgrading our systems and architecture, we may experience outages and may not be able to deliver certain offerings and develop new offerings and enhancements that we need to remain competitive. Such improvements and upgrades are often complex, costly and time consuming. In addition, such improvements can be challenging to integrate with our existing technology systems, or may uncover problems with our existing technology systems. Unsuccessful implementation of hardware or software updates and improvements could result in outages, disruption in our business operations, loss of revenue or damage to our reputation.
•compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials;
Violations of the rapidly evolving and complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions or sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and may result in harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Increased government regulation of our businesses, or changes to existing regulations, may harm our operating results.
The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that affect the Company’s activities, including, without limitation, areas of labor, advertising, tax, financial services, data privacy and security requirements, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, intellectual property ownership and infringement, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety. There have been significant new regulations and heightened focus by the government on many of these areas, as well as in areas such as insurance, privacy and healthcare (including, for example, the Affordable Care Act). As we expand our products and services and revise our business models, both domestically and internationally, we may become subject to additional government regulation or increased regulatory scrutiny. Further, regulators (both in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions in which we operate) may adopt new laws or regulations, change existing regulations, or their interpretation of existing laws or regulations may differ from ours . 
As our business continues to expand to countries outside the United States that have more complex privacy, security and data protection laws, our compliance requirements and costs may increase. For example, recent legal developments in the European Union have created compliance uncertainty and increased complexity. The European Commission and the Swiss Government approved the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks, respectively, that provide a mechanism for companies to legally transfer personal data from the EU and Switzerland to the U.S. However, these frameworks as well as other personal data transfer mechanisms face a number of legal challenges, both by regulators and private parties. A change in these transfer mechanisms could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. In addition, the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which contains a compliance deadline of May 25, 2018 will apply to all of our activities related to products and services that we offer to EU customers and workers. The GDPR requires that we make certain operational changes to these products and our business practices, and will include significant penalties for non-compliance (including possible fines of up to 4% of total company revenue). Other governmental authorities around the world are considering similar types of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. Each of these privacy, security and data protection laws and regulations could impose significant limitations, require changes to our business, require notification to customers or workers of a security breach, restrict our use or storage of personal information, or cause changes in customer purchasing behavior which may make our business more costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future products or services, which may make customers less likely to purchase our products or harm our future financial results. Additionally, any actual or alleged noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in negative publicity and subject us to investigations, claims or other remedies, including demands that we modify or cease existing business practices, and expose us to significant fines, penalties and other 
damages. We have incurred – and may continue to incur – significant expenses to comply with existing privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations.
We are also subject to certain laws and regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions relating to electronic funds transfer, money transmission and other regulated activities. In the event laws governing regulated activities change or expand, we may be subject to additional compliance costs. As we increase our business activities into regulated areas, such as lending, we may be subject to increased regulations and compliance requirements.
We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services.
The laws relating to the liability of online services companies for information such as online content disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges. In spite of settled law in the U.S., claims are made against online services companies by parties who disagree with the content. Where our online content is accessed on the internet outside of the U.S., challenges may be brought under foreign laws which do not provide the same protections for online services companies as in the U.S. These challenges in either U.S. or foreign jurisdictions may rise to legal claims alleging defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through the services. Certain of our services include content generated by users of our online services. Although this content is not generated by us, claims of defamation or other injury may be made against us for that content. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability may harm our business.
We ship more desktop software products to our distributors and retailers than we expect them to sell, in order to reduce the risk that distributors or retailers may run out of products. This is particularly true for our tax products, which have a short selling season and for which returns occur primarily in our fiscal third and fourth quarters. Like many software companies that sell their products through distributors and retailers, we have historically accepted significant product returns. We establish reserves against revenue for product returns in our financial statements based on estimated returns and we closely monitor product sales and inventory in the retail channel in an effort to maintain adequate reserves. In the past, returns have not differed significantly from these reserves. However, if we experience actual returns that significantly exceed reserves, it may result in lower net revenue.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets and impairment charges may cause significant fluctuation in our net income.
Our acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization and impairment of acquired technology and other acquired intangible assets, and impairment of goodwill. Total costs and expenses in these categories were $14 million in fiscal 2017; $34 million in fiscal 2016; and $339 million in fiscal 2015, of which $149 million was classified as discontinued operations. Although under current accounting rules goodwill is not amortized, we may incur impairment charges related to the goodwill already recorded and to goodwill arising out of future acquisitions. We test the impairment of goodwill annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. The timing of the formal annual test may result in charges to our statement of operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that may not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods. The total costs and expenses for fiscal 2015 included goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $297 million, of which $149 million was classified as discontinued operations. At April 30, 2018, we had $1.6 billion in goodwill and $68 million in net acquired intangible assets on our balance sheet, both of which may be subject to impairment charges in the future. New acquisitions, and any impairment of the value of acquired intangible assets, may have a significant negative impact on our future financial results.
We have $450 million in debt outstanding under the term loan and may incur other debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results.
•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and our industries.
Our current unsecured revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, our short- and long-term debt includes covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. If we breach any of the covenants under our short- and long-term debt or our unsecured revolving credit facility and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable.
In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under our unsecured revolving credit facility may increase. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing.
