fls.txt



item1.txt
Noncontrolling interest amounts of $4.9 million and $3.8 million, net of tax, for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $11.9 million and $11.7 million, net of tax, for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The guidance also changes the requirements for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts and requires additional disclosures for these reporting units.
In June 2016, with amendments in 2018 and 2019, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance also made some changes to lessor accounting, including elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company made a policy election to not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
As a lessee, at adoption, the company recognized operating and financing ROU assets of $4.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, and operating and financing lease liabilities of $5.1 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively.
In August 2018, the FASB issued guidance on a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in cloud-computing arrangements that are hosted by a vendor.
The guidance required certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets.
In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million.
In the fourth quarter of 2018, the company recognized an additional impact to net deferred taxes and retained earnings of $56 million, resulting in a total net increase to retained earnings of $580 million.


item2.txt
Effective with the first quarter of 2019, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system.
Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
The company’s reportable segment financial results reflect pre-tax operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company’s management and measurement system.
In the second quarter of 2019, the company reported $19.2 billion in revenue, $2.5 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.8 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.81 as reported and $3.17 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
$2.9 billion in cash from operations, $2.4 billion in free cash flow and delivered shareholder returns of $1.8 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
This performance reflects improving fundamentals as the company continues to focus on investment prioritization shifting to higher value areas and the value the company provides to clients in their digital transformations and journey to the cloud.
The company has taken significant actions to improve its position over time including the completion of the two software asset divestitures and workforce actions in the second quarter as well as the acquisition of Red Hat on July 9, 2019.
It is clear that the next chapter of cloud will be about shifting mission-critical work to the cloud and optimizing everything from supply chains to core banking systems.
The year-to-year performance was driven by gains from the divestitures (9 points), the impact of currency (4 points) and lower non-operating retirement-related costs (4 points), partially offset by a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges (7 points) and higher spending and litigation matters (5 points).
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.8 billion decreased 0.3 percent and the pre-tax margin was 14.4 percent, an increase of 0.6 points versus the prior-year period.
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was 9.7 percent, a decrease of 3.7 points compared to the second quarter of 2018.
Net income of $2.5 billion increased 3.9 percent and the net income margin was 13.0 percent, an increase of 1.0 points year to year.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $3.2 billion decreased 5.9 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 0.3 points to 16.6 percent.


item4.txt



part2.txt



