fls.txt



item1.txt
Noncontrolling interest amounts of $6.2 million and $4.4 million, net of tax, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $17.9 million and $11.5 million, net of tax, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance on a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in cloud-computing arrangements that are hosted by a vendor.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
A cross-functional team has been established that is evaluating the financial instruments portfolio and system, process and policy change requirements.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
adopt the guidance as of the effective date and will apply the transition option, whereby prior comparative periods will not be retrospectively presented in the consolidated financial statements.
The company expects to elect the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
From a lessor perspective, due to changes in lease termination guidance, when equipment is returned to the company prior to the end of the lease term, the carrying amounts of lease receivables, which remain outstanding relating to that equipment and still expected to be collected, will be reclassified to loan receivables.
The amount that would have been reclassified from lease receivables to loan receivables in 2017, under the application of this new guidance, would have been approximately $450 million.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets.
In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million.
Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced by $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million.
The guidance did not have a material impact in the company’s consolidated financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.


item2.txt
As a result, the company aligned its presentation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings to conform to the FASB presentation of these costs in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
In the third quarter of 2018, the company reported $18.8 billion in revenue, $2.7 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $3.1 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.94 as reported and $3.42 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company generated $4.2 billion in cash from operations and $2.2 billion in free cash flow in the third quarter of 2018, and delivered shareholder returns of $2.1 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
Total consolidated revenue decreased 2.1 percent as reported but was flat adjusted for currency in the third quarter, with continued growth in offerings in hybrid cloud, security, digital, analytics and AI.
Strategic imperatives revenue over the last 12 months was $39.5 billion, an increase of 13 percent as reported and 11 percent adjusted for currency.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $11.4 billion in the third quarter of 2018 compared to $9.4 billion in the third quarter of 2017.
This benefit was partially offset by a lower level of intellectual property (IP) income (1 point) compared to the prior year.
Income from continuing operations of $2.7 billion decreased 1.3 percent and the net income margin was 14.4 percent, an increase from 14.2 percent in the third quarter of 2017.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $3.6 billion increased 0.5 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 0.5 points to 19.2 percent.
Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $3.1 billion increased 2.9 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 16.7 percent, an increase of 0.8 points year to year.
The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2018 was 12.8 percent, a decline of 2.0 points.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.94 increased 0.7 percent and operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $3.42 increased 4.9 percent versus the third quarter of 2017. repurchased 4.3 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $0.6 billion and had $1.4 billion remaining in the current share repurchase authorization at September 30, 2018.
Net cash used in investing activities of $3.0 billion in the third quarter of 2018 was $1.1 billion higher than the prior year, primarily driven by an increase from net purchases of marketable securities and other investments ($1.5 billion).


item4.txt



part2.txt



