fls.txt



item1.txt
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the capital lease test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company is currently planning on electing the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets.
In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million.
Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million.
Refer to note 3, “Revenue Recognition,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption and changes in accounting policies relating to revenue recognition.
The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.
In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance which requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets, other than inventory, at the time of transfer.
In January 2017, the company had one transaction that generated a $582 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income and a benefit to both basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.62 per share for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The benefit to basic and diluted earnings per share for the period ending March 31, 2017 was $0.62 and $0.61, respectively, with no transactions impacting the consolidated financial results for the period ending March 31, 2018.
The guidance was effective and adopted by the company on January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Prior to adoption, the company reported this activity as an operating cash outflow and as a result, prior periods have been reclassified as required.
The company accounts for a contract with a client when it has written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection.


item2.txt
As a result, the company aligned its presentation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings to conform to the FASB presentation of these costs in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
In the first quarter of 2018, the company reported $19.1 billion in revenue, $1.7 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.3 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.81 as reported and $2.45 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company also generated $4.6 billion in cash from operations and $1.3 billion in free cash flow in the first quarter of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $2.2 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
Strategic imperatives revenue of $9.0 billion increased 15 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency in the first quarter, with double-digit growth in cloud, security and mobile, as the company continues to build new platforms and solutions and embeds cloud and AI capabilities across the business.
Strategic imperatives revenue over the last 12 months was $37.7 billion, an increase of 12 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency, representing 47 percent of the company’s total revenue.
Total Cloud revenue in the first quarter of 2018 of $4.2 billion increased 20 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency, with as-a-Service revenue up 25 percent as reported and 20 percent adjusted for currency.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $10.7 billion in the first quarter of 2018 compared to $8.6 billion in the first quarter of 2017.
Mobile revenue increased 19 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency and Security revenue increased 65 percent (60 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting strong demand for the company’s highly-integrated security software, security managed services and the pervasive encryption capabilities in the z14 mainframe, and growth in security software solutions.
The consolidated gross margin and the operating (non-GAAP) gross margin performance improved sequentially 80 basis points and 70 basis points, respectively, compared to the fourth-quarter 2017 year-to-year performance driven by an improved mix and productivity led by services.
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.1 billion decreased 20.2 percent and the pre-tax margin was 6.0 percent, a decrease of 1.9 points year to year.
The prior year negative tax rate was primarily driven by discrete tax items ($0.5 billion), including the first-quarter 2017 intra-entity transfer of assets ($0.6 billion).
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.7 billion decreased 14.4 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 2.1 points to 9.1 percent.


item4.txt



part2.txt



