fls.txt



item1.txt
The company expects to adopt the guidance on a prospective basis on the effective date.
The company is evaluating the impact of the guidance.
A cross-functional team was established that is evaluating the financial instruments portfolio and the system, process and policy change requirements and continues to make substantial progress.
The new guidance expands the scope of financial instruments subject to impairment, including off-balance sheet commitments and residual value.
The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date and is continuing to evaluate the impact.
The FASB issued guidance in February 2016, with amendments in 2018 and 2019, which changed the accounting for leases.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance also made some changes to lessor accounting, including elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
As a lessee, at adoption, the company recognized operating and financing right-of-use (ROU) assets of $4.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, and operating and financing lease liabilities of $5.1 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively.
Certain types of implementation costs should be capitalized and amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
At adoption, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable—trade and deferred income—current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets.
In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in deferred costs in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million.


item2.txt
Effective with the first quarter of 2019, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system.
The following table provides the company’s operating (non-GAAP) earnings for the first quarter of 2019 and 2018.
In the first quarter of 2019, the company reported $18.2 billion in revenue, $1.6 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.0 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.78 as reported and $2.25 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company also generated $4.8 billion in cash from operations, $1.7 billion in free cash flow and delivered shareholder returns of $2.3 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
As the company continued to optimize its portfolio and invest in emerging, high-value areas of the IT industry, there was strong performance in offerings that help clients with their digital transformation and shift of mission-critical work to the cloud.
Total cloud revenue of $4.5 billion in the first quarter of 2019 grew 7 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue was $11.7 billion, an increase of 10 percent as reported and 15 percent adjusted for currency.
The company has been focused on improving margins and the results in the first quarter reflect the actions that have been taken to focus on higher value and portfolio optimization, and also in driving productivity and operational efficiency — especially in the services businesses.
Total expense and other (income) decreased 13.4 percent in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.9 billion increased 65.8 percent and the pre-tax margin was 10.4 percent, an increase of 4.4 points versus 2018.
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 15.4 percent, an increase of 62.9 points compared to the first quarter of 2018.
Net income of $1.6 billion decreased 5.2 percent and the net income margin was 8.8 percent, flat year to year.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.2 billion grew 28.3 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 3.2 points to 12.3 percent.
The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 10.0 percent, an increase of 40.6 points compared to the first quarter of 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt



