fls.txt



item1.txt
Noncontrolling interest amounts of $4.9 million and $3.8 million, net of tax, for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $11.9 million and $11.7 million, net of tax, for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The company expects to adopt the guidance on a prospective basis on the effective date.
The company is evaluating the impact of the guidance.
The new guidance expands the scope of financial instruments subject to impairment, including off-balance sheet commitments and residual value.
The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date.
A cross-functional team was established to evaluate the impact of the guidance on the financial instruments portfolio.
All of the changes to systems, processes and policies are on track for completion before the effective date.
The FASB issued guidance in February 2016, with amendments in 2018 and 2019, which changed the accounting for leases.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The guidance also made some changes to lessor accounting, including elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the lease classification test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
As a lessee, at adoption, the company recognized operating and financing ROU assets of $4.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, and operating and financing lease liabilities of $5.1 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively.
Certain types of implementation costs should be capitalized and amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.


item2.txt
Effective with the first quarter of 2019, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system.
In the second quarter of 2019, the company reported $19.2 billion in revenue, $2.5 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.8 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.81 as reported and $3.17 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
This performance reflects improving fundamentals as the company continues to focus on investment prioritization shifting to higher value areas and the value the company provides to clients in their digital transformations and journey to the cloud.
The company has taken significant actions to improve its position over time including the completion of the two software asset divestitures and workforce actions in the second quarter as well as the acquisition of Red Hat on July 9, 2019.
It is clear that the next chapter of cloud will be about shifting mission-critical work to the cloud and optimizing everything from supply chains to core banking systems.
Total expense and other (income) decreased 2.8 percent in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the prior year.
The year-to-year performance was driven by gains from the divestitures (9 points), the impact of currency (4 points) and lower non-operating retirement-related costs (4 points), partially offset by a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges (7 points) and higher spending and litigation matters (5 points).
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.8 billion decreased 0.3 percent and the pre-tax margin was 14.4 percent, an increase of 0.6 points versus the prior-year period.
The continuing operations effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was 9.7 percent, a decrease of 3.7 points compared to the second quarter of 2018.
Net income of $2.5 billion increased 3.9 percent and the net income margin was 13.0 percent, an increase of 1.0 points year to year.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $3.2 billion decreased 5.9 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 0.3 points to 16.6 percent.
The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was 11.0 percent, a decrease of 5.0 points compared to the second quarter of 2018.
The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factor mentioned above.
Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $2.8 billion decreased 0.3 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 14.8 percent, up 0.6 points year to year.


item4.txt



part2.txt



