item1.txt
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
Approximately 98% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.
The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company has changed the presentation of its returns reserve.
The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet.
The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the inventory line item of the balance sheet.
The Company expects products returned by customers to be in new and salable condition, as required by our standard terms and conditions, and therefore impairment of the return asset is unlikely.
The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2018 included $320,500 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.
The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended June 25, 2017 included $247,600 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.
Stock-based compensation expense is primarily related to our Performance Stock Units (PSUs), Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock Options, granted or outstanding under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stock and Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”).
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, on May 10, 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”) approved the grant of PSUs to selected key employees, providing them with the opportunity to earn up to 71,000 shares of the Company’s common stock in the aggregate, depending upon whether and to the extent which certain earnings per share targets and other Company and individual performance metrics are met.
These not-yet-earned PSUs have a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019), and assuming the performance metrics are met to a sufficient extent, any shares earned at the end of fiscal 2019 will vest 25% and be issued ratably on or about each of May 1 of 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, provided that the respective employees remain employed by or associated with the Company on each such date.
The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2019 related to the fiscal 2018 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2018).
If all PSUs granted thus far in fiscal 2019 are assumed to be earned on account of the applicable performance metrics being fully met, total unrecognized compensation costs on these PSUs would be approximately $1.0 million, as of July 1, 2018, and would be expensed through fiscal 2022.
To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2019 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.
As of July 1, 2018, there was approximately $1.0 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to all outstanding RSUs, assuming all shares are earned.
Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.
As of July 1, 2018, there was approximately $0.9 million of total unrecognized compensation costs, related to these awards.
These unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a period of approximately three years.
On June 24, 2016, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, for a senior asset based secured revolving credit facility of up to $35 million (the “Revolving Credit Facility”).
This replaced our then existing $35 million unsecured revolving credit facility with both SunTrust Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, which had no outstanding principal balance at the time of replacement.
The secured Revolving Credit Facility, as it was initially established, included terms providing for its maturity after five years, on June 24, 2021, and for a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans.
Borrowing Availability under the secured Revolving Credit Facility as it was initially established was determined in part in accordance with a Borrowing Base, defined in the Credit Agreement, generally, as 85% of Eligible Receivables minus Reserves, as those terms were defined in the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement included financial and other covenants, and pursuant to a related Guaranty and Security Agreement by and among the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, the Loan Parties’ obligations, which included the obligations under the Credit Agreement, were guaranteed by those Loan Parties not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and all proceeds of the foregoing.
The security interests were granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time.
The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.
In addition to expanding the Company’s borrowing limit, the secured Revolving Credit Facility maturity date was extended to October 19, 2021.
The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement otherwise includes representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants (including restrictions) and other terms generally consistent with those applicable to the facility as existing prior to the execution and delivery of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, but with certain modifications.
In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and other Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by them in connection with the secured credit facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility from time to time.
As of July 1, 2018, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $15.8 million and, therefore, the Company had $59.2 million available for borrowing as of July 1, 2018, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.
As of April 1, 2018, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $10.8 million and, therefore, the Company had $64.2 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of April 1, 2018.
Concentration of Risk  
For the fiscal quarters ended July 1, 2018 and June 25, 2017, no customer accounted for more than 10.0% of total consolidated revenues.
For the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2018, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 14.2% and 8.0% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
For the fiscal quarter ended June 25, 2017, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 11.8% and 11.1% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
Risk Factors.


item2.txt
Our first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 7.8% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
We experienced first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 16.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
The prior launch occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, while the most recent launch instead occurred in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, contributing to a decline in year over year first quarter revenue.
Revenue decreased in our network systems and our mobile device accessories categories by 4.4% and 7.4%, respectively, for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the same quarter last year.
Our first quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 5.3%, compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above, and in 
part the result of slightly compressed gross profit margins caused by changes in customer and product mix, including a lower percentage of proprietary Ventev® sales as compared to the prior year period and a larger percentage of overall sales from the public carrier market.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by 3.9% compared to the prior-year quarter.
The new tax law that went into effect in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted in a significantly lower tax rate in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased by 69.6% and diluted earnings per share increased by 62.5% compared to the prior-year quarter.
Revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 7.8% compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Within our commercial segment, revenues in our public carrier market increased by 51.7%.
We also experienced revenue growth within our government and private system operators markets of 9.3% and 2.8%, respectively, over the prior year quarter.
The increase in revenue from our government market was primarily related to increased spending by government contractors related to state and local government fiscal year ends.
The growth in our commercial segment was partially offset by a decline in our retail segment of 7.9%, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
The first fiscal quarter of 2018 included retail segment revenue associated with the introduction by Samsung of a new Galaxy phone.
This year, Samsung again introduced a new Galaxy phone, but did so earlier in the calendar year, leading to the receipt of a significant portion of related revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, instead of the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 5.2% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 to 20.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
This decline was caused primarily by a change in product and customer mix, including a lower percentage of proprietary Ventev® sales as compared to the prior year period.
Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carrier, government, and private system operator markets increased by 36.3%, 6.6%, and 5.6%, respectively.
Within our retail market, gross profit decreased by 3.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 2018, due to lower revenue, but was partially offset by changes in customer mix and support from our vendors to secure additional business.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased 3.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 19.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, to 19.2% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the increase in our information technology expense of $0.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $68,600 for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 to $174,400 for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q).
The annual federal rate has dropped from 35% to 21% due to the Tax Act. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased 69.6% and diluted earnings per share increased 62.5% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.
We have determined that increasing sales to our public carrier customers requires significant investments in inventory, which times results in larger accounts receivable balances.
As of July 1, 2018, we had a $15.8 million balance on the Revolving Credit Facility; therefore, we had $59.2 million available, subject to the Borrowing Base limitations and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the financial and other covenants discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


item3.txt
Item 3.
Item 3.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 4.
Item 6.


