item1.txt
The Company’s operations, engineering, business development, sales and marketing, and operational general and administrative functions were consolidated into a single enterprise-wide organization.
In connection with the Reorganization, the Board of Directors appointed a Chief Operating Officer who maintains regular contact with the CODM to discuss operating activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the Company’s businesses.
The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations due to its foreign operations and because products are sold internationally.
The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency.
Accounts of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the applicable balance sheet date for assets and liabilities and average monthly rates prevailing during the period for revenue and expense accounts.
Net foreign exchange gains (losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions included in other income, net was $28 and $(9) for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company adopted this guidance on January 1, 2019.
The Company completed this project plan, in which it analyzed the ASU's impact on its leases, surveyed the Company's key employees, assessed the portfolio of leases, and established a future lease process to keep the lease accounting portfolio up to date.
Cash equivalents are measured at fair value and investments are recognized at amortized cost in the Company’s financial statements.
Accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets.
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s cash equivalents were invested in highly liquid AAA rated money market funds that are required to comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
The Company restricts its investments in AAA money market funds to those invested 100% in either short-term U.S. government agency securities or bank repurchase agreements collateralized by these same securities.
The Company had $1.5 million and $0.8 million of cash and cash equivalents in foreign bank accounts at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The Company’s cash in its foreign bank accounts is not insured.
Within the cash in foreign bank accounts, the Company had cash of $1.5 million and $0.6 million in China bank accounts at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company has no intentions of repatriating the cash in its foreign bank accounts in China.
If the Company decides to repatriate the cash in the foreign bank accounts, it may have trouble in doing so in a timely manner.


item2.txt
Our second quarter 2019 revenues were $23.5 million and increased by $1.9 million or 8.9% compared to revenues of $21.6 million for the same period in 2018.
Second quarter 2019 revenues increased by $3.4 million or 82.0% to $7.5 million for the test and measurement product line compared to the second quarter 2018 and decreased by $1.5 million or 8.4% to $16.0 million for the antenna product line.
Revenues increased for the test and measurement product line due to increased sales of 5G products.
The gross profit of $10.7 million, increased by $2.9 million compared to the same period in 2018 due to both a higher product mix of test and measurement product line revenues and an increase in the gross margin percentage for antenna products.
Primarily based on higher gross profit margins, we recorded an operating income of $0.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to an operating loss of $1.6 million during the second quarter 2018.
This Form 10-Q does not include segment reporting information; however, we have included revenues and gross profit for the two major product lines (antenna products and test and measurement products) because each product line has a significantly different gross profit profile.
Approximately $0.9 million of severance costs will be paid in cash.
Other non-cash costs associated with the transition to contract manufacturers include fixed asset dispositions estimated to be $0.1 million.


item4.txt
Not applicable.


part2.txt
In order to optimize the cost structure of our antenna product line and increase our competitiveness, we have engaged several contract manufacturers over the last several years to manufacture certain antennas and we are in the process of transitioning the manufacturing of antenna products from our Tianjin facility to contract manufacturers in China and elsewhere.
We expect the transition to be substantially completed by the end of our 2020 fiscal year (the “Transition Period”) and we expect to recognize cumulative pre-tax charges of approximately $1.0 million consisting of severance and other transition costs.


