We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, digital home, healthcare, industrial and energy, mobility, networking and telecommunications, packaging, point of sale and printing industries.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue, for the three months ended November 30, 2017, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Ingenico S.A., LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., SolarEdge Technologies, Inc., Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
We derived a substantial majority, 92.3%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months ended November 30, 2017.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
In September 2017, our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico received significant hurricane damage.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, we recognized $7.4 million of expenses, net of insurance proceeds of $10.3 million.
As we continue to assess the impact to our operations, we may incur additional costs in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
We also expect the majority of these costs will ultimately be offset by insurance coverage.
Management regularly reviews financial and non-financial performance indicators to assess the Company’s operating results.
 (1)  The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators.
 (2)  During the three months ended August 31, 2017, the decrease in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of sales and collections activity.
 (3)  During the three months ended November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter due to increased demand in the mobility business as well as the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended May 31, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
See Note 13 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
Net Revenue.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 13% due to a 12% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and a 1% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare and packaging businesses.
EMS segment revenues increased 6% primarily due to a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our digital home business, a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our industrial and energy business, a 1% increase in revenues from customers in our automotive and transportation business and a 1% increase spread across various industries within the EMS segment.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
Accordingly, we do not differentiate or separately report revenue increases generated by acquisitions as opposed to existing business.
In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure.
Foreign source revenue represented 92.3% of our net revenue for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016.
Selling, General and Administrative.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $293.1 million (5.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $214.1 million (4.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2016.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, we recognized an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense due to the modification of certain performance-based restricted stock awards and a one-time cash-settled award while the three months ended November 30, 2016 included a $21.0 million reversal of stock-based compensation expense due to decreased expectations for the vesting of certain performance-based restricted stock awards.
Research and development expenses remained relatively consistent at $9.1 million (0.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $7.6 million (0.2% of net revenue) during the three months ended November 30, 2016.
Amortization of intangibles increased to $10.0 million during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $8.3 million during the three months ended November 30, 2016, primarily due to amortization from intangible assets related to the Lewis Engineering and True-Tech acquisitions that occurred in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, respectively.
Restructuring and Related Charges.
 (1) Includes $5.9 million and $7.4 million recorded in the EMS segment, $4.6 million and $11.5 million recorded in the DMS segment and $0.9 million and $17.0 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
 (2)  Primarily relates to the 2017 Restructuring Plan.
On September 15, 2016, our Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align our global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness.
This action includes headcount reductions across our Selling, General and Administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).
Upon completion of the 2017 Restructuring Plan, we expect to recognize approximately $195.0 million in restructuring and related charges.
We have incurred $164.6 million of costs-to-date as of November 30, 2017.
The remaining costs for employee severance and benefits costs, asset write-off costs and other related costs are anticipated to be incurred during the remainder of fiscal year 2018.
The 2017 Restructuring Plan, once complete, is expected to yield annualized cost savings beginning in fiscal year 2019 in the range of $70.0 million to $90.0 million.
See Note 11 – “Restructuring and Related Charges” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of restructuring and related charges for the 2017 Restructuring Plan.
Other Expense.
The increase is primarily due to an increase in fees associated with the asset-backed securitization programs.
Additionally, we recognized a loss in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 for a cost method investment.
Interest Income.
Interest income increased to $3.8 million during the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to $2.5 million during the three months ended November 30, 2016, due to increased investments.
Income tax expense reflects an effective tax rate of 40.5% for the three months ended November 30, 2017, compared to an effective tax rate of 33.6% for the three months ended November 30, 2016.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended November 30, 2017 increased primarily due to increased losses in jurisdictions with existing valuation allowances, driven in part by higher stock-based compensation expense.
The determination of the transition tax is contingent on further guidance to be issued by the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, including the categorization of foreign subsidiary balance sheet assets.
We are currently assessing the impact this enacted legislation may have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Management believes that the non-GAAP “core” financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition costs and certain purchase accounting adjustments, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, other than temporary impairment on securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations and certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges.
Among other uses, management uses non-GAAP “core” financial measures to make operating decisions, assess business performance and as a factor in determining certain employee performance when evaluating incentive compensation.
In the case of restructuring and related charges, we may make associated cash payments in the future.
We encourage you to consider these matters when evaluating the utility of these non-GAAP financial measures.
 (1)  Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $10.3 million, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
As discussed in Note 12 – “Business Acquisitions” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we completed one acquisition during the three months ended November 30, 2017 which was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting.
Production levels for a portion of the DMS segment are subject to seasonal influences.
We may realize greater net revenue during our first fiscal quarter, which ends on November 30, due to higher demand for consumer related products during the holiday selling season.
We believe that our level of liquidity sources, which includes available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our asset-backed securitization programs and under our uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs, cash on hand, funds provided by operations and the access to the capital markets, will be adequate to fund our capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, share repurchases, any potential acquisitions and our working capital requirements for the next 12 months.
As of November 30, 2017, we had approximately $746.3 million in cash and cash equivalents.
 (1) We believe that our cash on hand and available borrowing under our credit facilities will be adequate to fund the payment of the 8.250% Senior Notes.
However, we anticipate that we will enter into a new borrowing agreement to repay our 8.250% Senior Notes prior to maturity.
Additionally, our foreign subsidiaries have various additional credit facilities that finance their future growth and any corresponding working capital needs.
As of November 30, 2017, we had $2.2 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities.
We may need to finance day-to-day working capital needs, as well as future growth and any corresponding working capital needs, with additional borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility and our other credit facilities as well as additional public and private offerings of our debt and equity.
We continue to assess our capital structure and evaluate the merits of redeploying available cash to reduce existing debt or repurchase common stock.
Currently, we have a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources.
Our Senior Notes and our Credit Facility contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants under our Senior Notes and Credit Facility.
Refer to Note 6 – “Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
 (2)  On November 9, 2017, the program was extended to October 20, 2020.
In connection with our asset-backed securitization programs, as of November 30, 2017, we sold $1.4 billion of eligible trade accounts receivable, which represents the face amount of total sold outstanding receivables at that date.
In exchange, we received cash proceeds of $602.0 million and recorded a deferred purchase price receivable of $760.0 million.
As of November 30, 2017, we had up to $0.1 million in available liquidity under our asset-backed securitization programs.
Our asset-backed securitization programs contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants under our asset-backed securitization programs.
Refer to Note 7 – “Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the programs.
 (2)  The maximum amount under the program will be reduced to $650.0 million on February 1, 2018.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, we sold $1.1 billion of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.1 billion.
As of November 30, 2017, we had up to $543.9 million in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable sale programs.
For fiscal year 2018, we anticipate our net capital expenditures, which do not include any amounts spent on acquisitions, will be approximately $700.0 million, principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments.
The amount of actual capital expenditures may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things.
Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended November 30, 2017 was primarily due to higher inventories, prepaid expenses and other current assets and accounts receivable, partially offset by higher accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities.
The increase in inventories supports expected sales levels in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 and also is due to increased demand.
The increase in prepaid expense and other current assets is primarily due to an increase in deferred purchase price receivables from an increase in receivables sold and the timing of cash collections and an increase in the value added tax receivables.
The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the timing of sales and cash collections activity as well as higher sales levels.
However, the declaration and payment of future dividends are discretionary and will be subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial performance.
In July 2017, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of our common stock.
The 2017 Share Repurchase Program expires on August 31, 2018.
As of November 30, 2017, 3.2 million shares had been repurchased for $93.2 million and $356.7 million remains available under the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.
 (1) The purchases include amounts that are attributable to shares surrendered to us by employees to satisfy, in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and the exercise of stock appreciation rights, their tax withholding obligations.
 (2) In July 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of our common stock as publicly announced in a press release issued on July 20, 2017.
