We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, digital home, healthcare, industrial and energy, mobility, networking and telecommunications, packaging, point of sale and printing industries.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the nine months ended May 31, 2018, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, SolarEdge Technologies, Inc., Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
We derived a substantial majority, 91.2% and 91.8%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
In September 2017, our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico received significant hurricane damage.
During the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, we recognized $(0.6) million and $10.7 million of expenses, net of insurance proceeds of $5.0 million and $21.4 million, respectively.
As we continue to assess the impact to our operations, we may incur additional costs in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018.
We also expect the majority of these costs will ultimately be offset by insurance coverage.
 (1)  The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators.
 (2)  During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to increased sales activity during the quarter.
During the three months ended February 28, 2018, the increase in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the increase in inventories to support expected sales levels in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 along with overall increased demand.
 (3)  During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter due to increased demand in the mobility business as well as the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
See Note 13 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 36% due to (i) a 29% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand, (ii) a 4% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business and (iii) a 3% increase in revenues due to a new customer and from existing customers in our consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies business.
EMS segment revenues increased 12% primarily due to (i) a 3% increase in revenues from a new customer and from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (ii) a 3% increase in revenues from existing customers in our capital equipment business, (iii) a 2% increase in revenues from existing customers in our digital home business, (iv) a 2% increase in revenues from existing customers within our networking and telecommunications business and (v) a 2% increase in revenues spread across various industries within the EMS segment.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 27% due to (i) a 25% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and (ii) a 2% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business.
EMS segment revenues increased 8% primarily due to (i) a 3% increase in revenues from customers within our capital equipment business, (ii) a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our digital home business, (iii) a 2% increase in revenues from a new customer and existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 1% increase in revenues from customers in our automotive and transportation business.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure.
Gross profit increased during the three months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017 primarily due to the increase in net revenue.
Gross profit increased during the nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2017.
Gross profit increased on an absolute basis primarily due to the increase in net revenue.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to an increase in salary and salary related expenses and other costs to support business growth and development.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2017.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, we recognized an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense due to the modification of certain performance-based restricted stock awards and a one-time cash-settled award while the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 included a $21.0 million reversal of stock-based compensation expense due to decreased expectations for the vesting of certain performance-based restricted stock awards.
Research and development expenses during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, respectively, remained relatively consistent as a percent of net revenue.
Amortization of intangibles increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to amortization from intangible assets related to the True-Tech acquisition that occurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
 (1)  Includes $4.6 million and $12.4 million recorded in the EMS segment, $5.8 million and $17.8 million recorded in the DMS segment and $2.2 million and $2.5 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Includes $12.6 million and $23.8 million recorded in the EMS segment, $13.8 million and $65.8 million recorded in the DMS segment and $3.1 million and $23.9 million of non-allocated charges for the nine ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
 (2)  Primarily relates to the 2017 Restructuring Plan.
On September 15, 2016, our Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align our global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness.
This action includes headcount reductions across our selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).
Upon completion of the 2017 Restructuring Plan, we expect to recognize approximately $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs.
We have incurred $180.2 million of costs-to-date as of May 31, 2018.
The 2017 Restructuring Plan is expected to yield annualized cost savings beginning in fiscal year 2019 in the range of $70.0 million to $90.0 million.
See Note 11 – “Restructuring and Related Charges” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of restructuring and related charges for the 2017 Restructuring Plan.
Other expense decreased for the three months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to an other than temporary impairment on available for sale securities of $11.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2017.
The decrease was partially offset by an increase in fees of $4.7 million associated with the asset-backed securitization programs and trade accounts receivable sale programs during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Other expense increased for the nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to an increase in fees associated with the asset-backed securitization programs and the new trade accounts receivable sale programs.
Additionally, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 we incurred costs of $2.6 million in connection with a “make-whole” premium and related costs for the early redemption of the 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018.
The increase was partially offset by an other then temporary impairment on available for sale securities during the third quarter of fiscal year 2017.
Interest income increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, due to increased investments.
Interest expense increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, due to additional borrowings on the Revolving Credit Facility and higher interest rates.
The effective tax rate increased for the three months ended May 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to (i) increased income in jurisdictions with low tax rates and (ii) the overall loss for the three months ended May 31, 2017, despite having income in certain high tax-rate jurisdictions.
118, recorded a provisional income tax expense of approximately $30.9 million.
As of May 31, 2018, we continue to believe this is a reasonable estimate related to Tax Reform based on analyses, interpretations, and guidance available at this time.
As a result of the Tax Act, we are analyzing the indefinite reinvestment assertion and cash repatriation plan.
We have made no adjustments to the financial statements in the current quarter with respect to our indefinite reinvestment assertion but may do so during the measurement period permitted by applicable SEC guidance.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Management believes that the non-GAAP “core” financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition costs and certain purchase accounting adjustments, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, other than temporary impairment on securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations and certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges.
Among other uses, management uses non-GAAP “core” financial measures to make operating decisions, assess business performance and as a factor in determining certain employee performance when evaluating incentive compensation.
In the case of restructuring and related charges, we may make associated cash payments in the future.
We encourage you to consider these matters when evaluating the utility of these non-GAAP financial measures.
 (1)  Charges relate to inventory and other assets charges for a distressed customer.
 (2)  Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $5.0 million and $21.4 million for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
 (3)  Includes $30.9 million which is comprised of the provisional one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax as required by the Tax Act and the provisional impact of the Tax Act to the re-measurement of U.S. deferred tax attributes for the nine months ended May 31, 2018.
As discussed in Note 12 – “Business Acquisitions” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we completed one acquisition during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 which was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting.
Production levels for a portion of the DMS segment are subject to seasonal influences.
We believe that our level of liquidity sources, which includes available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our asset-backed securitization programs and under our uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs, cash on hand, funds provided by operations and the access to the capital markets, will be adequate to fund our capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, share repurchases, any potential acquisitions and our working capital requirements for the next 12 months.
We continue to assess our capital structure and evaluate the merits of redeploying available cash to reduce existing debt or repurchase common stock.
As of May 31, 2018, we had approximately $677.5 million in cash and cash equivalents.
As a result, most of our cash and cash equivalents as of May 31, 2018 could be repatriated to the United States without potential tax consequences.
The net proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes, including to redeem $400.0 million of our outstanding 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 and pay related costs and a “make-whole” premium.
Additionally, our foreign subsidiaries have various additional credit facilities that finance their future growth and any corresponding working capital needs.
As of May 31, 2018, we had $1.9 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities.
Currently, we have a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources.
Our Senior Notes and our Credit Facility contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants under our Senior Notes and Credit Facility.
Refer to Note 6 – “Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
 (3)  On April 19, 2018, the program was extended to September 28, 2018.
In connection with our asset-backed securitization programs, as of May 31, 2018, we sold $1.1 billion of eligible trade accounts receivable, which represents the face amount of total sold outstanding receivables at that date.
In exchange, we received cash proceeds of $600.6 million and recorded a deferred purchase price receivable of $529.6 million.
As of May 31, 2018, we had up to $0.1 million in available liquidity under our asset-backed securitization programs.
Our asset-backed securitization programs contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants under our asset-backed securitization programs.
Refer to Note 7 – “Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the programs.
 (3)  On May 4, 2018, the program was extended to May 4, 2023.
During the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, we sold $1.3 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.3 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively.
As of May 31, 2018, we had up to $353.8 million in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable sale programs.
For fiscal year 2018, we anticipate our net capital expenditures, which do not include any amounts spent on acquisitions, will be approximately $700.0 million, principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments.
The amount of actual capital expenditures may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things.
Net cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 was primarily due to non-cash expenses and higher accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, partially offset by higher inventories, accounts receivable and prepaid expenses and other current assets.
The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities was primarily due to an increase in materials purchases due to increased demand in the mobility business and the timing of purchases and cash payments.
The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the timing of sales and cash collections activity as well as higher sales levels.
The increase in prepaid expense and other current assets is primarily due to an increase in value added tax receivables, partially offset by a decrease in deferred purchase price receivables from a decrease in receivables sold and the timing of cash collections.
As of the date of this report, other than the borrowings on the 3.950% Senior Notes and payments on the 8.250% Senior Notes discussed in Note 6 – “Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business since August 31, 2017 to our contractual obligations and commitments.
However, the declaration and payment of future dividends are discretionary and will be subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial performance.
In July 2017, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of our common stock.
As of May 31, 2018, 11.5 million shares had been repurchased for $316.2 million and $133.8 million remains available under the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.
In June 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock.
The 2018 Share Repurchase Program expires August 31, 2019.
 (1)  The purchases include amounts that are attributable to shares surrendered to us by employees to satisfy, in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and the exercise of stock appreciation rights, their tax withholding obligations.
 (2)  In July 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of our common stock as publicly announced in a press release issued on July 20, 2017.
