The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Jabil Inc. (the “Company”) has made certain reclassification adjustments to conform prior periods’ Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to the current presentation.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
The Company’s diluted earnings per share is calculated in a similar manner, but includes the effect of dilutive securities.
The difference between the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding and the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is primarily due to dilutive unvested restricted stock awards and dilutive stock appreciation rights.
As of November 30, 2018, the shares available to be issued under the 2011 Stock Award and Incentive Plan were 11,936,088.
In June 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of the Company’s common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”).
The 2018 Share Repurchase Program expires August 31, 2019.
As of November 30, 2018, 7.9 million shares had been repurchased for $204.5 million and $145.5 million remains available under the 2018 Share Repurchase Program.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the Company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 48% of its net revenue and 75 customers accounted for approximately 90% of its net revenue.
Sales to these customers were reported in the Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”) operating segments.
The Company procures components from a broad group of suppliers.
Some of the products manufactured by the Company require one or more components that are available from only a single source.
An operating segment’s performance is evaluated based on its pre-tax operating contribution, or segment income.
Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $2.9 million and $10.3 million, for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relate to business interruption and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
As of November 30, 2018, the Company operated in 29 countries worldwide.
Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the Company’s location that maintains the customer relationship and transacts the external sale.
As of November 30, 2018, the Company has $2.3 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.
The estimated fair values of the Company’s publicly traded debt, including the 5.625%, 4.700% and 3.950% Senior Notes, were approximately $410.2 million, $503.7 million and $449.5 million, respectively, as of November 30, 2018.
The fair value estimates are based upon observable market data (Level 2 criteria).
The estimated fair value of the Company’s private debt, the 4.900% Senior Notes, was approximately $299.0 million, as of November 30, 2018.
The carrying amounts of borrowings under credit facilities and under loans approximate fair value as interest rates on these instruments approximate current market rates.
The Company regularly sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under a foreign asset-backed securitization program, a North American asset-back securitization program and nine uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs (collectively referred to herein as the “programs”).
The Company continues servicing the receivables sold and in exchange receives a servicing fee under each of the programs.
Servicing fees related to each of the programs recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017 were not material.
The Company does not record a servicing asset or liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company estimates that the fee it receives to service these receivables approximates the fair market compensation to provide the servicing activities.
The adoption of ASU 2016-15 described in Note 14, New Accounting Guidance, resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable on asset-backed securitization transactions.
In addition, the beneficial interest of $162.2 million and $747.3 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, obtained in exchange for securitized receivables are reported as non-cash investing activities.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
Effective October 1, 2018, the foreign asset-backed securitization program terms were amended and the program was extended to September 30, 2021.
In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution.
The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value.
Prior to the amendment, any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring was recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which was paid from available cash as payments on the receivables were collected.
The special purpose entity in the foreign asset-backed securitization program is a separate bankruptcy-remote entity whose assets would be first available to satisfy the creditor claims of the unaffiliated financial institution.
The Company is deemed the primary beneficiary of this special purpose entity as the Company has both the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive the benefits that could potentially be significant to the entity from the transfer of the trade accounts receivable into the special purpose entity.
Accordingly, the special purpose entity associated with the foreign asset-backed securitization program is included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash.
The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value.
On November 27, 2018, the Company entered into a new North American asset-backed securitization program.
The Company continuously sells designated pools of trade accounts receivable under its new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis.
The special purpose entity in the North American asset-backed securitization program is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and is included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
There is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the North American asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
Additionally, certain receivables are pledged as collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution.
For the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, the amount represented proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving-period transfers.
Recorded to other expense within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Recorded initially at fair value as prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and are valued using unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs), primarily discounted cash flows, and due to their credit quality and short-term maturity the fair values approximated book values.
The unobservable inputs consist of estimated credit losses and estimated discount rates, which both have an immaterial impact on the fair value calculations.
The asset-backed securitization programs require compliance with several covenants.
As of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the asset-backed securitization programs.
The maximum amount under the program will reduce to $650.0 million on February 1, 2019.
Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 15 days prior notice.
The program will automatically extend for one year at each expiration date unless either party provides 10 days notice of termination.
Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 30 days prior notice.
The program will be automatically extended through January 25, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
The program will be automatically extended through August 10, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
The program will be automatically extended through August 21, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
Recorded to other expense within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Represents reclassifications of net (gains) losses realized and included in net income related to derivative instruments.
During the three months ended November 30, 2017, $3.5 million was classified into net income as a reduction of income tax expense related to derivative instruments.
The remaining amount for the three months ended November 30, 2017 was primarily classified as a component of cost of revenue.
Represents reclassifications of net (gains) losses realized and included in net income related to derivative instruments.
The amount for the three months ended November 30, 2018 was primarily classified as a component of cost of revenue.
The Company expects to reclassify $9.2 million into earnings during the next twelve months, which will primarily be classified as a component of cost of revenue.
Amounts are net of tax, which is immaterial.
The Company is party to certain lawsuits in the ordinary course of business.
If the IRS ultimately prevails in its positions, the Company’s income tax payment due for the fiscal years 2009 through 2011 and 2012 through 2014 would be approximately $28.6 million and $5.3 million, respectively, after utilization of tax loss carry forwards available through fiscal year 2014.
Also, the IRS has proposed interest and penalties with respect to fiscal years 2009 through 2011.
At this time, anticipating the amount of any future IRS proposed adjustments, interest and penalties is not practicable.
The Company disagrees with and intends to contest the proposed income tax payments assessed.
As the final resolution of the proposed adjustments remains uncertain, the Company continues to provide for the uncertain tax positions based on the more likely than not standard.
However, there can be no assurance that management’s beliefs will be realized.
The primary market risks managed by the Company through the use of derivative instruments are foreign currency risk and interest rate risk.
Forward contracts are put in place to manage the foreign currency risk associated with the anticipated foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses.
A hedging relationship existed with an aggregate notional amount outstanding of $451.3 million and $293.4 million as of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018, respectively.
The related forward foreign exchange contracts have been designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
In addition to derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments and qualify for hedge accounting, the Company also enters into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity.
The aggregate notional amount of these outstanding contracts as of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018, was $3.8 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively.
The Company’s forward foreign exchange contracts are measured on a recurring basis at fair value, based on foreign currency spot rates and forward rates quoted by banks or foreign currency dealers.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the Company recognized $21.9 million in foreign currency gains, which were offset by $38.6 million of losses from related forward contracts.
Both the foreign currency losses and gains from forward contracts were recognized in cost of revenue.
For the three months ended November 30, 2017, the amounts were immaterial and were recognized as components of cost of revenue.
The Company periodically enters into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk associated with the Company’s borrowings.
The forward starting swaps have an aggregate notional amount of $200.0 million and have been designated as hedging instruments and accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The forward starting swaps are scheduled to expire on December 15, 2020.
If the anticipated debt issuance occurs before December 15, 2020, the contracts will be terminated simultaneously with the debt issuance.
Changes in the fair value of the forward starting swap transactions are recorded on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of AOCI.
In connection with this transaction, the Company pays interest based upon a fixed rate as agreed upon with the respective counterparties and receives variable rate interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR.
The interest rate swaps have an aggregate notional amount of $200.0 million and have been designated as hedging instruments and accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The interest rate swaps were effective on October 11, 2018 and are scheduled to expire on August 31, 2020.
The contracts will be settled with the respective counterparties on a net basis at each settlement date.
In connection with this transaction, the Company pays interest based upon a fixed rate as agreed upon with the respective counterparties and receives variable rate interest payments based on the three-month LIBOR.
The interest rate swaps have an aggregate notional amount of $350.0 million and have been designated as hedging instruments and accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The interest rate swaps were effective on August 24, 2018 and are scheduled to expire on August 24, 2020.
The contracts will be settled with the respective counterparties on a net basis at each settlement date.
In connection with this transaction, the Company pays interest based upon a fixed rate as agreed upon with the respective counterparties and receives variable rate interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR.
The interest rate swaps have an aggregate notional amount of $200.0 million and have been designated as hedging instruments and accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The interest rate swaps were effective on September 30, 2016 and are scheduled to expire on June 30, 2019.
The contracts will be settled with the respective counterparties on a net basis at each settlement date.
The swaps were accounted for as a cash flow hedge and had a notional amount of $200.0 million.
Concurrently with the pricing of the 3.950% Senior Notes in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company settled the swaps.
The effective portion of the swaps is recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of AOCI and is amortized as a reduction to interest expense in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations through January 2028.
Includes $4.4 million and $5.9 million recorded in the EMS segment, $1.6 million and $4.6 million recorded to the DMS segment and $0.0 million and $0.9 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Upon completion of the 2017 Restructuring Plan, the Company expects to recognize approximately $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs.
On September 1, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of True-Tech Corporation (“True-Tech”) for approximately $95.9 million in cash.
True-Tech is a manufacturer specializing in aerospace, semiconductor and medical machined components.
The acquisition of True-Tech assets has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting.
Assets acquired of $114.7 million, including $25.9 million in intangible assets and $22.6 million in goodwill, and liabilities assumed of $18.8 million were recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities was recorded to goodwill and was fully allocated to the EMS segment.
Pro forma information has not been provided as the acquisition of True-Tech is not deemed to be significant.
During fiscal year 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard, which is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Refer to Note 16 – “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to address certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to address the presentation of certain transactions within the statement of cash flows with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice.
This standard was adopted on September 1, 2018 on a retrospective basis and resulted in a reclassification of cash flows from operating activities to investing activities in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for cash receipts related to collections on the deferred purchase price receivable on asset-backed securitization transactions.
The increase in cash flow from investing activities and the corresponding decrease to cash flow from operating activities upon adoption of the standard was $96.8 million and $596.1 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The new standard eliminates the exception for an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory and requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences when the transfer occurs.
This guidance was adopted on a modified retrospective basis and an immaterial cumulative-effect adjustment was recorded, which reduced retained earnings as of September 1, 2018.
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the scope of accounting for asset derecognition and adds further guidance for recognizing gains and losses from the transfer of non-financial assets in contracts with non-customers.
During fiscal year 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to improve the presentation of net periodic pension benefit cost.
Prior periods have not been reclassified due to immateriality.
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
SAB 118 provides a measurement period that should not extend beyond one year from the Tax Act enactment date for companies to complete the accounting under ASC 740.
 which the accounting under ASC 740 is complete.
The Company has applied SAB 118 and provided required disclosures in Note 15 - “Income Taxes.”
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard revising lease accounting.
The new guidance requires organizations to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and disclose key information regarding leasing arrangements.
Early application of the new standard is permitted and the standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach.
In preparation for the adoption, the Company is implementing a new lease accounting system.
The adoption of this standard will impact the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Company is currently evaluating practical expedients and accounting policy elections, and assessing overall impacts this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
During fiscal year 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard, which replaces the existing incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
This guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and early adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
This guidance must be applied using a modified retrospective or prospective transition method, depending on the area covered by this accounting standard.
The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
During fiscal year 2018, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The Company is currently assessing the impact this new standard may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Recently issued accounting guidance not discussed above is not applicable or did not have, or is not expected to have, a material impact to the Company.
The adjustment to the one-time transition tax for the three months ended November 30, 2018 was primarily related to further analysis of the Company’s utilization of foreign tax credits and applicable limitations.
In addition to the adjustment recorded during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, the Company has elected to record the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income effects as a period cost.
The Company intends to indefinitely reinvest the remaining earnings from the Company’s foreign subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not already been recorded.
The accumulated earnings are the most significant component of the basis differences which are indefinitely reinvested.
Effective September 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update No.
2014-09 (“ASU 2014-09”), Revenue Recognition (Topic 606).
The new standard is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires the Company to recognize revenue in a manner which depicts the transfer of goods or services to its customers at an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Prior to the adoption of the new standard, the Company recognized substantially all of its revenue from contracts with customers at a point in time, which was generally when the goods were shipped to or received by the customer, title and risk of ownership had passed, the price to the buyer was fixed or determinable and collectability was reasonably assured (net of estimated returns).
Under the new standard, the Company will recognize revenue over time for the majority of its contracts with customers which will result in revenue for those customers being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
Revenue for all other contracts with customers will continue to be recognized at a point in time, similar to recognition prior to the adoption of the standard.
Under the new standard, such upfront costs will be recognized as an asset and amortized on a systematic basis consistent with the pattern of the transfer of control of the products or services to which to the asset relates.
Included within accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Differences included in contract liabilities as of September 1, 2018.
The Company is one of the leading providers of worldwide manufacturing services and solutions.
The Company provides comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets.
The Company derives substantially all of its revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
As a result, the Company considers its contract with a customer to be the combination of the manufacturing service contract and the purchase order, or any agreements or other similar documents.
The majority of our manufacturing service contracts relate to manufactured products which have no alternative use and for which the Company has an enforceable right to payment for the work completed to date.
As a result, revenue is recognized over time when or as the Company transfers control of the promised products or services (known as performance obligations) to its customers.
The Company also derives revenue to a lesser extent from electronic design services to certain customers.
Revenue from electronic design services is generally recognized over time as the services are performed.
For the Company’s over time customers, it believes the measure of progress which best depicts the transfer of control is based on costs incurred to date, relative to total estimated cost at completion (i.e., an input method).
This method is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods or services because it results in the recognition of revenue on the basis of our to-date efforts in the satisfaction of a performance obligation relative to the total expected efforts in the satisfaction of the performance obligation.
The Company believes that the use of an input method best depicts the transfer of control to the customer, which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
The transaction price of each performance obligation is generally based upon the contractual stand-alone selling price of the product or service.
Certain contracts with customers include variable consideration, such as rebates, discounts, or returns.
Taxes collected from the Company’s customers and remitted to governmental authorities are presented within the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations on a net basis and are excluded from the transaction price.
The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as costs to fulfill the promise to transfer the goods.
Included within accrued expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balances Sheets.
Differences included in contract liabilities as of September 1, 2018.
Differences primarily relate to the timing of revenue recognition for over-time customers and to the recovery of fulfillment costs.
Differences primarily relate to the timing of cost recognition for over-time customers and the recognition of fulfillment costs.
The Company records an asset when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing a customer (“contract assets”) while a liability is recognized when a customer pays an invoice prior to the Company transferring control of the goods or services (“contract liabilities”).
Contract assets are classified separately on the Condensed Consolidated Balances Sheets and transferred to receivables when right to payment becomes unconditional.
No impairment costs related to contract assets were recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2018.
The change in contract liabilities that existed at the beginning of the reporting period was primarily due to revenue recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2018.
The Company capitalizes costs incurred to fulfill its contracts that i) relate directly to the contract or anticipated contracts, ii) are expected to generate or enhance the Company’s resources that will be used to satisfy the performance obligation under the contract, and iii) are expected to be recovered through revenue generated from the contract.
Prior to the adoption of the new guidance, unless explicit reimbursement contracts existed, these costs were expensed as incurred.
 are amortized to cost of revenue as the Company satisfies the related performance obligations under the contract with approximate lives ranging from 1-3 years.
The Company assesses the capitalized fulfillment costs for impairment at the end of each reporting period.
The Company will recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount of the capitalized costs exceeds the recoverable amount.
Recoverability is assessed by considering the capitalized fulfillment costs in relation to the forecasted profitability of the related manufacturing performance obligations.
As of November 30, 2018, capitalized costs to fulfill are $33.2 million.
Amortization of $15.5 million and no impairment costs related to fulfillments costs were recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2018.
The Company applied the practical expedient and did not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less.
References in this report to “the Company,” “Jabil,” “we,” “our,” or “us” mean Jabil Inc. together with its subsidiaries, except where the context otherwise requires.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Item 1A.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
For further information on our forward-looking statements see Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
