We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the three months ended November 30, 2018, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.
We derived a substantial majority, 92.7% of net revenue from our international operations for the three months ended November 30, 2018.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
In connection with the adoption of ASU 2014-09, days in inventory are calculated based on inventory and contract asset balances for the three months ended November 30, 2018.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, days in inventory increased from the prior sequential quarter to support expected sales levels in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
During the three months ended August 31, 2018 and May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to increased sales activity during the quarter.
During the three months ended August 31, 2018, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter and the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16—“Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Note 14 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure.
Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 10% due to (i) a 6% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and (ii) a 4% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business.
EMS segment revenues increased 22% primarily due to (i) a 11% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (iii) a 4% increase in revenues for customers within our computing and storage business and (iv) a 4% increase in revenues for customers within our printing business.
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16—“Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Gross profit decreased as a percent of net revenue during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, primarily due to higher costs in our capital equipment business and ramp costs associated with new business awards in our EMS segment.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017.
The decrease is primarily due to an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized during the three months ended November 30, 2017 as a result of the modification of certain performance-based restricted stock awards and a one-time cash-settled award.
Research and development expenses remained consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017.
Includes $4.4 million and $5.9 million recorded in the EMS segment, $1.6 million and $4.6 million recorded in the DMS segment and $0.0 million and $0.9 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
On September 15, 2016, our Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align our global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness.
This action includes headcount reductions across our selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).
Upon completion of the 2017 Restructuring Plan, we expect to recognize approximately $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs.
We have incurred $188.4 million of costs-to-date as of November 30, 2018.
The 2017 Restructuring Plan, once complete, is expected to yield annualized cost savings beginning in fiscal year 2019 of approximately $90.0 million.
See Note 12 – “Restructuring and Related Charges” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of restructuring and related charges for the 2017 Restructuring Plan.
Interest income increased during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, due to higher interest rates.
Interest expense increased during the three months ended November 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, due to additional borrowings on our credit facilities and higher interest rates.
The effective tax rate decreased for the three months ended November 30, 2018 compared to the three months ended November 30, 2017, primarily due to $13.3 million of income tax benefit associated with Tax Act adjustments, mainly related to the one-time transition tax.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Management believes that the non-GAAP “core” financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition and integration charges, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, other than temporary impairment on securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations and certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges.
Among other uses, management uses non-GAAP “core” financial measures to make operating decisions, assess business performance and as a factor in determining certain employee performance when evaluating incentive compensation.
We are reporting “core” operating income, “core” earnings, “core” return on invested capital and adjusted free cash flow to provide investors with an additional method for assessing operating income, earnings and free cash flow by presenting what we believe are our “core” manufacturing operations.
In the case of restructuring and related charges, we may make associated cash payments in the future.
We encourage you to consider these matters when evaluating the utility of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $2.9 million and $10.3 million for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
Includes a $13.3 million income tax benefit for the effects of the Tax Act for the three months ended November 30, 2018.
Production levels for a portion of the DMS segment are subject to seasonal influences.
We believe that our level of liquidity sources, which includes available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our asset-backed securitization programs and under our uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs, cash on hand, funds provided by operations and the access to the capital markets, will be adequate to fund our capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, share repurchases, any potential acquisitions and our working capital requirements for the next 12 months.
We continue to assess our capital structure and evaluate the merits of redeploying available cash to reduce existing debt or repurchase common stock.
As of November 30, 2018, we had approximately $804.4 million in cash and cash equivalents.
As of November 30, 2018, we had $2.3 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities.
We have a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources.
Our Senior Notes and our credit facilities contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of November 30, 2018, we were in compliance with our debt covenants.
Refer to Note 7 – “Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
Effective October 1, 2018, the foreign asset-backed securitization program terms were amended and the program was extended to September 30, 2021.
In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million.
The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution.
Prior to the amendment, any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring was recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which was paid from available cash as payments on the receivables were collected.
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash.
The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value.
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis.
There is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the North American asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
In connection with our asset-backed securitization programs, during the three months ended November 30, 2018, we sold $750.4 million of trade accounts receivable and we received cash proceeds of $744.0 million.
As of November 30, 2018, we had up to $83.4 million in available liquidity under our asset-backed securitization programs.
Our asset-backed securitization programs contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under our asset-backed securitization programs.
Refer to Note 8 – “Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the programs.
The program will be automatically extended through August 10, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
The program will be automatically extended through August 21, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, we sold $1.8 billion of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.8 billion.
As of November 30, 2018, we had up to $322.1 million in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable sale programs.
For fiscal year 2019, we anticipate our net capital expenditures will be approximately $800.0 million.
Our capital expenditures will support investments in new markets and ongoing maintenance in our DMS and EMS segments.
The amount of actual capital expenditures may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things.
Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended November 30, 2018 was primarily due to increased contract assets and accounts receivable, partially offset by increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities and decreased inventories.
The increase in contract assets is due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the timing of revenue recognition for over time customers.
The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities is primarily due to the timing of collections on accounts receivable sold under the securitization programs, an increase in materials purchases due to increased demand in the mobility business and the timing of purchases and cash payments.
The decrease in inventories is primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the reclassification to contract assets for revenue recognized for over time customers, partially offset by an increase to support expected sales levels in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended November 30, 2018 consisted primarily of capital expenditures principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments, partially offset by cash receipts on sold receivables under the asset-backed securitization programs.
However, the declaration and payment of future dividends are discretionary and will be subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial performance.
In June 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”).
This authorization expires on August 31, 2019.
As of November 30, 2018, 7.9 million shares had been repurchased for $204.5 million and $145.5 million remains available under the 2018 Share Repurchase Program.
The purchases include amounts that are attributable to shares surrendered to us by employees to satisfy, in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and the exercise of stock appreciation rights, their tax withholding obligations.
In June 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock as publicly announced in a press release issued on June 14, 2018.
The share repurchase program expires on August 31, 2019.
