We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the nine months ended May 31, 2019, our largest customers include Amazon.com, Inc., Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Ingenico Group, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., and Nokia Networks.
We derived a substantial majority, 86.5% and 89.2%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
During the three months ended May 31, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended February 28, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to lower materials purchases during the quarter and timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16 — “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Note 14 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition.
In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure.
Specifically, the EMS segment revenues increased 26% primarily due to (i) a 9% increase in revenues from new customers within our cloud business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (iii) an 8% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business and (iv) a 6% increase in revenues from existing customers within our print and retail business.
The decrease was partially offset by a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business.
Net revenue increased during the nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2018.
Specifically, the EMS segment revenues increased 27% primarily due to (i) a 9% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from new customers within our cloud business, (iii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 5% increase in revenues from existing customers within our print and retail business.
The increase is partially offset by a 5% decrease from existing customers within our computing and storage business and capital equipment business.
DMS segment revenues remained consistent due to a 6% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business.
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16 — “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, gross profit for our DMS segment increased as a percentage of net revenue due to improved profitability across the various businesses.
As a result, gross profit remained relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2018.
The increase is partially offset by an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 as a result of the one-time modification of certain performance-based restricted stock unit awards and a one-time cash-settled award.
Research and development expenses remained consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018.
Amortization of intangibles decreased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, primarily due to intangible assets related to the Nypro acquisition, which were fully amortized during fiscal year 2018.
Includes $7.6 million and $4.6 million recorded in the EMS segment, $0.0 million and $5.8 million recorded in the DMS segment and $1.7 million and $2.2 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Includes $12.3 million and $12.6 million recorded in the EMS segment, $2.1 million and $13.8 million recorded in the DMS segment and $1.8 million and $3.1 million of non-allocated charges for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
On September 15, 2016, our Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align our global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness.
This action includes headcount reductions across our selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).
The 2017 Restructuring Plan, totaling $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs, is substantially complete as of May 31, 2019.
See Note 12 – “Restructuring and Related Charges” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of restructuring and related charges for the 2017 Restructuring Plan.
Other expense increased for the three months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2018, primarily due to $6.1 million of additional fees associated with the utilization of the foreign and North American asset-backed securitization programs and trade accounts receivable sales programs.
This increase was partially offset by $2.1 million of other expense.
Interest income increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, due to increased cash equivalents (investments that are readily convertible to cash with maturity dates of 90 days or less).
Interest expense increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, due to additional borrowings on our credit facilities and higher interest rates.
For the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, additional borrowings were driven by the timing and scale of our ongoing new business ramps.
Additionally, the nine months ended May 31, 2019 was also impacted by the completion of the share repurchase program.
The effective tax rate increased for the three months ended May 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended May 31, 2018, primarily due to decreased income in jurisdictions with low tax rates or existing valuation allowances.
The effective tax rate decreased for the nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2018, primarily due to $30.9 million of tax expense from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“Tax Act”) for the nine months ended May 31, 2018.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Management believes that the non-GAAP “core” financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition and integration charges, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, other than temporary impairment on securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations and certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges.
Among other uses, management uses non-GAAP “core” financial measures to make operating decisions, assess business performance and as a factor in determining certain employee performance when evaluating incentive compensation.
In the case of restructuring and related charges, we may make associated cash payments in the future.
We encourage you to consider these matters when evaluating the utility of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Charges relate to inventory and other assets charges for a distressed customer.
Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $5.0 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018, and $2.9 million and $21.4 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
The tax effect is calculated by applying the core effective tax rate for the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018 to core operating income less interest expense.
During fiscal year 2019, the Company and JJMD entered into a Framework Agreement to form a strategic collaboration and expand our existing relationship.
The strategic collaboration expands our medical device manufacturing portfolio, diversification and capabilities.
On February 25, 2019 and April 29, 2019, under the terms of the Framework Agreement, we completed the initial closing and second closing, respectively, of our acquisition of certain assets of JJMD.
The preliminary aggregate purchase price paid for both the initial closing and second closing was approximately $153.2 million in cash, which remains subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
The acquisition of the JJMD assets has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting.
Total assets acquired of $163.6 million and total liabilities assumed of $10.4 million were recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition dates.
The final closings, which are subject to customary closing conditions, are expected to occur during fiscal year 2020.
We are currently evaluating the fair values of the assets and liabilities related to this business combination.
The preliminary estimates and measurements are, therefore, subject to change during the measurement period for assets acquired, liabilities assumed and tax adjustments.
We believe it is impracticable to provide pro forma information for the acquisition of JJMD assets.
We believe that our level of liquidity sources, which includes available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our asset-backed securitization programs and under our uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs, cash on hand, funds provided by operations and the access to the capital markets, will be adequate to fund our capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, approved share repurchase programs, any potential acquisitions and our working capital requirements for the next 12 months.
We continue to assess our capital structure and evaluate the merits of redeploying available cash to reduce existing debt or repurchase common stock.
As of May 31, 2019, we had approximately $694.1 million in cash and cash equivalents.
We have a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources.
Our Senior Notes and our credit facilities contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of May 31, 2019, we were in compliance with our debt covenants.
Refer to Note 7 – “Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million.
Prior to the amendment, any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring was recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which was paid from available cash as payments on the receivables were collected.
No liability has been recorded for obligations under the guarantee as of May 31, 2019.
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash.
The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value.
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis.
There is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the North American asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
Additionally, $204.4 million of receivables are pledged as collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution as of May 31, 2019.
In connection with our asset-backed securitization programs, during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, we sold $1.0 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable and we received cash proceeds of $1.0 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively.
As of May 31, 2019, we had up to $55.1 million in available liquidity under our asset-backed securitization programs.
Our asset-backed securitization programs contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under our asset-backed securitization programs.
Refer to Note 8 – “Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the programs.
The program will be automatically extended through August 10, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
The program will be automatically extended through August 21, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
During the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, we sold $1.5 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.5 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively.
As of May 31, 2019, we had up to $1.3 billion in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable sale programs.
For fiscal year 2019, we anticipate our net capital expenditures will be approximately $800.0 million.
Our capital expenditures will support investments in new markets and ongoing maintenance in our DMS and EMS segments.
Net cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 was primarily due to decreased inventories, increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities and non-cash expenses, partially offset by increased contract assets and accounts receivable.
The decrease in inventories is primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the reclassification to contract assets for revenue recognized for over time customers, partially offset by an increase in inventories to support expected sales levels in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The increase in contract assets is due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the timing of revenue recognition for over time customers.
The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
Net cash used in investing activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 consisted primarily of capital expenditures principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments and expenditures for assets acquired in connection with the initial and second closings of the acquisition of JJMD, partially offset by proceeds and advances from the sale of property, plant and equipment and cash receipts on sold receivables under the asset-backed securitization programs.
However, the declaration and payment of future dividends are discretionary and will be subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial performance.
In June 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”).
This authorization expires on August 31, 2019.
As of May 31, 2019, the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors had been repurchased.
The purchases include amounts that are attributable to shares surrendered to us by employees to satisfy, in connection with the vesting of restricted stock unit awards and the exercise of stock appreciation rights, their tax withholding obligations.
