ITEM 1.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
QUALCOMM Incorporated
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See accompanying notes.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
See accompanying notes.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
See accompanying notes.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying notes.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
See accompanying notes.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1.
Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies Update
Financial Statement Preparation.
These condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
In the opinion of management, the interim financial information includes all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
These condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Operating results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire fiscal year.
We operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the last Sunday in September.
Each of the three-month and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and June 24, 2018 included 13 weeks and 39 weeks, respectively.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and the disclosure of contingent amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Revision of Prior Period Financial Statements.
As previously disclosed, in connection with the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended December 30, 2018, we identified an immaterial error related to the recognition of certain royalty revenues of our QTL (Qualcomm Technology Licensing) segment in the quarterly and annual periods in fiscal 2018 and third and fourth quarters and annual period in fiscal 2017.
In accordance with SAB No.
99, “Materiality,” and SAB No.
108, “Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements,” we evaluated the error and determined that the related impact was not material to our financial statements for any prior annual or interim period, but that correcting the cumulative impact of the error would be significant to our results of operations for the three months ended December 30, 2018.
Accordingly, we have revised previously reported financial information for such immaterial error, as previously disclosed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2019.
A summary of revisions to certain previously reported financial information presented herein for comparative purposes is included in Note 11.
We will also correct previously reported financial information for such immaterial error in our future filings, as applicable.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
At June 30, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested restricted stock units granted prior to that date was $1.2 billion, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.
At June 30, 2019, we had outstanding 26.9 million restricted stock units and 1.1 million stock options that contain only a service requirement.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements.
Adoption of this new accounting guidance most significantly impacts the timing of sales-based royalty revenues, which are the vast majority of our QTL segment’s revenues.
Prior to adoption, we recognized sales-based royalties as revenues in the period in which such royalties were reported by licensees, which was after the conclusion of the quarter in which the licensees’ sales occurred and when all other revenue recognition criteria had been met.
Under the new accounting guidance, we estimate and recognize sales-based royalties in the period in which the associated sales occur, subject to certain constraints on our ability to estimate such amounts, resulting in an acceleration of revenue recognition compared to the historical method under ASC 605.
Since we do not invoice for sales-based royalties estimated and recognized in any given quarter until after the conclusion of that quarter (which is generally the following quarter when such royalties are reported by licensees), revenues recognized from sales-based royalties results in unbilled receivables (included in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet).
The adoption of ASC 606 did not otherwise have a material impact.
The new accounting guidance also impacts the timing of recognizing certain customer incentives, which are recorded as a reduction to revenues in the period that the related revenues are earned.
Prior to adoption, we accounted for certain customer incentive arrangements, including volume-related and other pricing rebates or cost reimbursements for marketing and other activities involving certain of our products and technologies, in part based on the maximum potential liability.
Under the new accounting guidance, we estimate the amount of all customer incentives.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Adoption of the new accounting guidance had no impact to net cash provided (used) by operating, financing or investing activities on our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the nine months ended June 30, 2019.
In November 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance that requires companies to include restricted cash and cash equivalents as a component in total cash and cash equivalents on the statement of cash flows.
As a result, the consolidated statement of cash flows no longer reflects transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents.
We adopted the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the retrospective transition method, which results in certain amounts in fiscal 2018 being adjusted to conform to the new accounting guidance.
This includes restricted cash and cash equivalents held during fiscal 2018 related to funds deposited as collateral for outstanding letters of credit in connection with a then proposed acquisition.
Restricted cash and cash equivalents related to the outstanding letters of credit totaled $2.0 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 and third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Additionally, amounts for the nine months ended June 24, 2018 have been adjusted for restricted cash and cash equivalents of $2.8 billion that was irrevocably deposited to redeem long-term debt in July 2018, resulting in a decrease in net cash used by financing activities by such amount, with a corresponding increase in total cash and cash equivalents presented on the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
deferred tax benefit or expense, upon receipt of the asset.
We adopted the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective transition method, with the cumulative effect of applying the new accounting guidance recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings of $2.6 billion, primarily as the result of establishing a deferred tax asset on the basis difference of certain intellectual property distributed from one of our foreign subsidiaries to a subsidiary in the United States in fiscal 2018.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the United States Treasury Department issued new temporary regulations that resulted in a change to the deductibility of dividend income received by a U.S. stockholder from a foreign corporation.
As a result of this change, pursuant to an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service, we will forgo the federal tax basis step-up in such distributed intellectual property.
Therefore, the related deferred tax asset was written-off, resulting in a $2.5 billion charge to income tax expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 (Note 3).
The ongoing impact of this accounting guidance will be dependent on the facts and circumstances of any transactions within its scope.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted.
Accounting Policy Update.
We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products and licensing of our intellectual property.
We also generate revenues by performing software hosting, software development and other services and from other product sales.
The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our performance obligations.
Revenues from sales of our products are recognized upon transfer of control to the customer, which is generally at the time of shipment.
Revenues from providing services are typically recognized over time as our performance obligation is satisfied.
Revenues from providing services were less than 5% of total revenues for all periods presented.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
License agreements that require payment of license fees contain a single performance obligation that represents ongoing access to a portfolio of intellectual property over the license term since such agreements provide the licensee the right to access a portfolio of intellectual property that exists at inception of the license agreement and to updates and new intellectual property that is added to the licensed portfolio during the term of the agreement that are highly interdependent or interrelated.
Since we expect to expend efforts to develop and transfer updates to our licensed portfolio on an even basis, license fees are recognized as revenues on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of benefit of the license to the licensee.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Revenues recognized from sales of our products and sales-based royalties are generally included in accounts receivable, net (including unbilled receivables) based on our unconditional right to payment for satisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations.
We disaggregate our revenues by segment (Note 7) and type of product and services (as presented on our consolidated statement of operations), as we believe this best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of our revenues and cash flows are affected by economic factors.
Substantially all of QCT’s revenues consist of equipment revenues that are recognized at a point in time, and substantially all of QTL’s revenues represent licensing revenues that are recognized over time.
Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods were $4.8 billion and $4.1 billion for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and primarily related to licensing revenues of $4.7 billion recognized in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 (a portion of which was attributable to the first and second quarters of fiscal 2019) resulting from the settlement with Apple and its contract manufacturers (Note 6), consisting of a payment from Apple and the release of certain of our obligations to pay Apple and the contract manufacturers customer-related liabilities.
Unearned revenues (which are considered contract liabilities) consist primarily of license fees for intellectual property with continuing performance obligations.
In the nine months ended June 30, 2019, we recognized revenues of $371 million that were recorded as unearned revenues at October 1, 2018.
Remaining performance obligations, substantially all of which are included in unearned revenues, represent the aggregate amount of the transaction price of certain customer contracts yet to be recognized as revenues as of the end of the reporting period and exclude revenues related to (a) contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less and (b) sales-based royalties (i.e., future royalty revenues) pursuant to our license agreements.
Our remaining performance obligations are primarily comprised of certain customer contracts for which QTL received license fees upfront.
At June 30, 2019, we had $1.8 billion of remaining performance obligations, of which $129 million, $516 million, $436 million, $429 million and $195 million was expected to be recognized as revenues for the remainder of fiscal 2019 and each of the subsequent four years from fiscal 2020 through 2023, respectively, and $77 million thereafter.
Prior to the adoption of the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, investments in non-marketable equity securities were recorded at cost less impairment, if any, with any losses resulting from an impairment recognized in investment and other income, net.
Beginning in fiscal 2019, investments in non-marketable equity securities are recorded at cost, less impairments (if any), adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar securities (if any).
All gains and losses on investments in non-marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recognized in investment and other income, net.
In addition, prior to adoption, we recorded impairment losses in earnings on investments in non-marketable equity securities when an impairment was considered other than temporary.
Beginning in fiscal 2019, we record impairment losses in earnings when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value.
Note 2.
Composition of Certain Financial Statement Items
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The increase in unbilled receivables was primarily due to the adoption of ASC 606 (Note 1).
Accounts receivable, trade at September 30, 2018 included approximately $960 million related to the short payment in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 of royalties reported by and deemed collectible from Apple’s contract manufacturers.
This same amount was recorded in customer-related liabilities (in other current liabilities) for Apple, since we did not have the contractual right to offset these amounts.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we entered into settlement agreements with Apple and its contract manufacturers to dismiss all outstanding litigation between the parties, and as a result, these amounts, as well as others, were settled (Note 6).
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, non-marketable debt and equity securities (non-cash consideration) with an aggregate fair value of $98 million were received related to a development contract with one of our equity method investees, which was recognized as revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
In addition, in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, non-marketable equity securities (non-cash consideration) with a fair value of $53 million were received in connection with the sale of certain assets as part of the Cost Plan (Note 8).
Beginning on August 4, 2019, for a period of 60 days, we have the option to acquire (and the minority owner has the option to sell) the minority ownership interest in the RF360 Holdings joint venture for $1.15 billion, and we expect one of such options to be exercised during this period.
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the accreted value of such amount was included in other current liabilities.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income included adjustments of $51 million to the opening retained earnings balance as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 related to financial instruments and hedge instruments (Note 1).
Reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income (excluding adjustments to opening retained earnings) related to available-for-sale securities were negligible in the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 24, 2018 and were recorded in investment and other income, net.
Other Income, Costs and Expenses.
Other expenses in the three months ended June 30, 2019 consisted of a $275 million charge related to the fine imposed by the European Commission (EC) related to the Icera complaint (2019 EC fine) (Note 6) and negligible net charges related to our Cost Plan.
Other expenses in the nine months ended June 30, 2019 included $275 million related to the 2019 EC fine, $207 million in net restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to our Cost Plan, partially offset by a $43 million gain due to the partial recovery of a fine we previously paid to the Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) and a $31 million gain related to a favorable legal settlement.
Other expenses in the three and nine months ended June 24, 2018 consisted of $112 million and $422 million, respectively, in restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to our Cost Plan.
Other expenses in the nine months ended June 24, 2018 also included a $1.2 billion charge related to an EC fine (2018 EC fine) (Note 6).
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 3.
Income Taxes
The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Legislation), which was enacted during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, significantly revised the United States corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate to 21% and imposing a one-time repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings and profits of U.S.-owned foreign subsidiaries (the Toll Charge).
The Tax Legislation fundamentally changed the taxation of multinational entities, including a shift from a system of worldwide taxation with deferral to a hybrid territorial system, featuring a participation exemption regime with current taxation of certain foreign income, a minimum tax on low-taxed foreign earnings and new measures to deter base erosion and promote U.S. production.
As a fiscal-year taxpayer, certain provisions of the Tax Legislation became effective starting at the beginning of fiscal 2019, including GILTI (global intangible low-taxed income), a new tax on income of foreign corporations, BEAT (base-erosion and anti-abuse tax) and FDII (foreign-derived intangible income).
In response to the Tax Legislation and to better align our profits with activities, we implemented certain tax restructuring in fiscal 2018 and 2019.
As a result, beginning in fiscal 2019, substantially all of our income is in the U.S., of which a significant portion qualifies for preferential treatment as FDII at a 13% effective tax rate.
The impact of GILTI and BEAT is negligible.
Accordingly, our estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 reflects the effects of these components of the Tax Legislation.
Our annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 reflected a blended federal statutory rate of approximately 25%.
As a result of the Tax Legislation, in fiscal 2019, several of our foreign subsidiaries made tax elections to be treated as U.S. branches for federal income tax purposes (commonly referred to as “check-the-box” elections) effective beginning in fiscal 2018 and 2019.
Although beginning in fiscal 2019 the income of these entities will be included in our consolidated U.S. tax return, we believe that by treating these foreign subsidiaries as U.S. branches for federal income taxes, rather than controlled foreign corporations, we will significantly reduce the risk of being subject to GILTI and BEAT taxes.
As a result of making these check-the-box elections, we recorded a tax benefit of $570 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to establishing new U.S. net deferred tax assets resulting from the difference between the GAAP basis and the U.S. federal tax carryover basis of the existing assets and liabilities of those foreign subsidiaries, primarily related to customer incentive liabilities that have not been deducted for tax purposes.
Additionally, during fiscal 2018, one of our foreign subsidiaries distributed certain intellectual property to a U.S. subsidiary resulting in a difference between the GAAP basis and the U.S. federal tax basis of the distributed intellectual property.
Upon adoption of new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we recorded a deferred tax asset of approximately $2.6 billion, primarily related to the distributed intellectual property, with an adjustment to opening retained earnings (Note 1).
During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the United States Treasury Department issued new temporary regulations that resulted in a change to the deductibility of dividend income received by a U.S. stockholder from a foreign corporation.
As a result of this change, pursuant to an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service, we will forgo the federal tax basis step-up in such distributed intellectual property.
Therefore, the related deferred tax asset was written-off, resulting in a $2.5 billion charge to income tax expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
We estimate our annual effective income tax rate to be 41% for fiscal 2019, which included the impact of the $2.5 billion charge recorded discretely in the third quarter to income tax expense resulting from the write-off of the deferred tax asset related to the distributed intellectual property and the impact of the tax benefit of $570 million recorded discretely in the first quarter due to establishing new U.S. net deferred tax assets from making certain check-the-box elections.
The estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 was also impacted by the 2019 EC fine recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, which is not deductible for tax purposes, and also reflected benefits from our FDII deduction and research and development tax credits.
The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was impacted by the combined effect of the Toll Charge, the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities and our decision to no longer indefinitely reinvest certain foreign earnings, all of which resulted from the Tax Legislation.
The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was also impacted by the termination fee paid to NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NXP), the 2018 EC fine, settlement with the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission (TFTC), allocation of expenses to our U.S. operations and new Singapore tax incentives.
The effective tax rate of 61% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was higher than the estimated annual effective tax rate of 41% primarily due to the $2.5 billion charge to income tax expense recorded discretely in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 resulting from the write-off of the deferred tax asset related to the distributed intellectual property.
The estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 was also impacted by the tax benefit of $570 million recorded discretely in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to establishing new U.S. net deferred tax assets from making certain check-the-box elections.
Unrecognized tax benefits were $230 million and $217 million at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
We believe that it is reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at June 30, 2019 may increase or decrease in the next 12 months.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions and are currently under examination by various tax authorities worldwide, most notably in countries where we earn a routine return and tax authorities believe substantial value-add activities are performed.
These examinations are at various stages with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds, many of which are open for periods after fiscal 2000.
We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts giving rise to a revision become known.
As of June 30, 2019, we believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for based on facts known.
However, the final determination of tax audits and any related legal proceedings could materially differ from amounts reflected in our income tax provision and the related accruals.
Note 4.
Capital Stock
Stock Repurchase Program.
On July 26, 2018, we announced a stock repurchase program authorizing us to repurchase up to $30 billion of our common stock.
The stock repurchase program has no expiration date.
In September 2018, we entered into three accelerated share repurchase agreements (ASR Agreements) with three financial institutions under which we paid an aggregate of $16.0 billion upfront and received an initial delivery of 178.4 million shares of our common stock, which were retired.
The final number of shares to be repurchased will be based on the volume-weighted average stock price of our common stock during the terms of the transactions, less a discount and subject to adjustments pursuant to the terms and conditions of the ASR Agreements and will also be retired upon delivery to us.
The ASR Agreements are scheduled to terminate in early September 2019, but may terminate earlier in certain circumstances.
At settlement, one or more of the financial institutions may be required to deliver additional shares of common stock to us, or under certain circumstances, we may be required to deliver shares of common stock or make a cash payment to one or more of the financial institutions, with the method of settlement at our election.
In the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 24, 2018, we repurchased and retired 17.7 million and 24.2 million shares for $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, before commissions.
To reflect share repurchases in the consolidated balance sheet, we (i) reduce common stock for the par value of the shares, (ii) reduce paid-in capital for the amount in excess of par to zero during the quarter in which the shares are repurchased and (iii) record the residual amount to retained earnings, if any.
At June 30, 2019, $7.8 billion remained authorized for repurchase under our stock repurchase program.
Dividends.
On July 24, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.62 per share on our common stock, payable on September 26, 2019 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on September 12, 2019.
Revolving Credit Facility.
We have an Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility (Revolving Credit Facility) that provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swing line loans and letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $5.0 billion, of which $530 million and $4.47 billion will expire in February 2020 and November 2021, respectively.
Proceeds from the Revolving Credit Facility, if drawn, are expected to be used for general corporate purposes.
Loans under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest, at our option, at either the reserve-adjusted Eurocurrency Rate (determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Facility) or the Base Rate (determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Facility), in each case plus an applicable margin based on our long-term unsecured senior, non-credit enhanced debt ratings.
The margins over the reserve-adjusted Eurocurrency Rate and the Base Rate will be 0.805% and 0.00%, respectively.
The Revolving Credit Facility has a facility fee, which accrues at a rate of 0.07% per annum.
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we had not borrowed any funds under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Commercial Paper Program.
We have an unsecured commercial paper program, which provides for the issuance of up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper.
Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes.
Maturities of commercial paper can range from 1 day to up to 397 days.
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we had $998 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, of outstanding commercial paper included in short-term debt with a weighted-average interest rate of 2.57% and 2.35%, respectively, which included fees paid to the commercial paper dealers, and weighted-average remaining days to maturity of 28 days and 16 days, respectively.
The carrying value of the outstanding commercial paper approximated its estimated fair value at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the aggregate fair value of the notes, based on Level 2 inputs, was approximately $16.1 billion and $15.1 billion, respectively.
We may redeem the outstanding fixed-rate notes at any time in whole, or from time to time in part, at specified make-whole premiums as defined in the applicable form of note.
We may not redeem the outstanding floating-rate notes prior to maturity.
The obligations under the notes rank equally in right of payment with all of our other senior unsecured indebtedness and will effectively rank junior to all liabilities of our subsidiaries.
At June 30, 2019, we had outstanding interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $1.8 billion related to the May 2015 Notes, which effectively converted approximately 43% and 50% of the fixed-rate notes due in 2020 and 2022, respectively, into floating-rate notes.
The net gains and losses on the interest rate swaps, as well as the offsetting gains or losses on the related fixed-rate notes attributable to the hedged risks, are recorded as interest expense in the current period.
We did not enter into interest rate swaps in connection with issuance of the May 2017 Notes.
The effective interest rates for the notes include the interest on the notes, amortization of the discount, which includes debt issuance costs, and if applicable, adjustments related to hedging.
Interest is payable in arrears quarterly for the floating-rate notes and semi-annually for the fixed-rate notes.
Cash interest paid related to our commercial paper program and long-term debt, net of cash received from the related interest rate swaps, was $516 million and $594 million in the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 24, 2018, respectively.
Debt Covenants.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires that we comply with certain covenants, including one financial covenant to maintain a ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to consolidated interest expense, as defined in each of the respective agreements, of not less than three to one at the end of each fiscal quarter.
We are not subject to any financial covenants under the notes nor any covenants that would prohibit us from incurring additional indebtedness ranking equal to the notes, paying dividends, issuing securities or repurchasing securities issued by us or our subsidiaries.
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with the applicable covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 6.
Commitments and Contingencies
Legal and Regulatory Proceedings.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
except to the extent that certain claims seek damages under the Sherman Antitrust Act.
On July 5, 2018, the plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification, and the court granted that motion on September 27, 2018.
On January 23, 2019, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals granted us permission to appeal the court’s class certification order.
On January 24, 2019, the court stayed the case pending our appeal.
We believe the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a charge of $1.2 billion to other expenses related to such EC fine.
We provided financial guarantees in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to satisfy the obligation in lieu of cash payment while we appeal the EC’s decision.
The fine is accruing interest at a rate of 1.50% per annum while it is outstanding.
As of October 1, 2018, we have designated the liability as a hedge of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries, with gains and losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income as a component of the foreign currency translation adjustment.
At June 30, 2019, the liability, including related foreign currency gains and accrued interest (which, to the extent they were not related to the net investment hedge, were recorded in investment and other income, net), was $1.16 billion and included in other current liabilities.
On August 30, 2018, the FTC moved for partial summary judgment that our commitments to license our cellular standard-essential patents to the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) and the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA) require us to make licenses available to rival sellers of cellular modem chipsets.
On November 6, 2018, the court granted the FTC’s partial summary judgment motion.
Trial was held January 4-29, 2019.
On May 21, 2019, the court issued an Order setting forth its Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law.
The court concluded that we had monopoly power in the CDMA and premium-tier LTE cellular modem chip markets, and that we had used that power in these two markets to engage in anticompetitive acts, including (1) using threats of lack of access to cellular modem chip supply to coerce OEMs to accept license terms that include unreasonably high royalty rates; (2) refusing to license our cellular standard-essential patents to competitors selling cellular modem chips; and (3) entering into exclusive
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
dealing arrangements with OEMs that foreclosed our rivals.
The court further found that the royalties we charge OEMs are unreasonably high and reflect the use of our monopoly power over CDMA and premium-tier LTE cellular modem chips rather than just the value of our patents.
The court concluded that our unreasonably high royalties constitute an anticompetitive surcharge on cellular modem chips sold by our competitors, which increases the effective price of our competitors’ cellular modem chips, reduces their margins and results in exclusivity.
The court also found that our practice of not licensing competitors’ cellular modem chips violated our commitments to certain standard-development organizations and a duty under the antitrust laws to license competing cellular modem chip makers and helped us maintain our royalties at unreasonably high levels.
Finally, the court found that incentive funds entered into with certain OEMs further harmed competing cellular modem chip makers’ ability to undermine our monopoly position, prevented rivals from entering the market and restricted the sales of those competitors that do enter.
The court concluded that the combined effect of our conduct, together with our monopoly power, harmed the competitive process.
We disagree with the court’s conclusions, interpretation of the facts and application of the law.
Accordingly, on May 28, 2019, we filed a Motion to Stay Pending Appeal in the court, which was denied on July 3, 2019.
On May 31, 2019, we filed with the court a Notice of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (Ninth Circuit).
On July 8, 2019, we filed a Motion for Partial Stay of Injunction Pending Appeal and a Consent Motion to Expedite Appeal in the Ninth Circuit.
On July 10, 2019, the Ninth Circuit granted our Motion to Expedite Appeal, and we expect briefing to be completed before the end of the calendar year.
The Partial Stay motion is pending.
Through June 30, 2019, we have received a number of claims from our direct and indirect customers and other third parties for indemnification under such agreements with respect to alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by our products.
Reimbursements under indemnification arrangements have not been material to our consolidated financial statements.
We have not recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities at June 30, 2019 associated with these indemnification arrangements based on our belief that additional liabilities, while possible, are not probable.
Further, any possible range of loss cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Purchase Obligations and Operating Leases.
We have agreements with suppliers and other parties to purchase inventory, other goods and services and long-lived assets.
Integrated circuit product inventory obligations represent purchase commitments for raw materials, semiconductor die, finished goods and manufacturing services, such as wafer bump, probe,
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
assembly and final test.
Under our manufacturing relationships with our foundry suppliers and assembly and test service providers, cancelation of outstanding purchase commitments is generally allowed but requires payment of costs incurred through the date of cancelation, and in some cases, incremental fees related to capacity underutilization.
We lease certain of our land, facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating leases, with terms ranging from less than one year to 15 years and with provisions in certain leases for cost-of-living increases.
Other Commitments.
At June 30, 2019, we committed to fund certain strategic investments up to $194 million, of which $30 million is expected to be funded in the remainder of fiscal 2019.
The remaining commitments do not have fixed funding dates and are subject to certain conditions.
Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be funded under these arrangements; actual funding may be in lesser amounts or not at all.
Note 7.
Segment Information
We evaluate the performance of our segments based on earnings (loss) before income taxes (EBT).
In fiscal 2018, all of the costs related to pre-commercial research and development of 5G technologies, of which we recorded $124 million and $340 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, were included in unallocated corporate research and development expenses.
Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, all research and development costs associated with 5G technologies are included in segment results.
Additionally, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, certain research and development costs associated with early research and development that were historically included in our QCT segment are allocated to our QTL segment.
The net effect of these changes negatively impacted QTL’s EBT by $127 million and $368 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively.
QCT’s EBT was positively impacted by $53 million and $97 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we combined our Small Cells business, which sells products designed for the implementation of small cells to address the challenge of meeting the increased demand for mobile data, into our QCT segment.
Revenues and operating results related to the Small Cells business were included in nonreportable segments through the end of fiscal 2018.
Prior period segment information has not been adjusted to conform to the new segment presentation as such adjustments are insignificant.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other unallocated revenues in the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 were comprised of licensing revenues resulting from the settlement with Apple and its contract manufacturers (Note 6) and were not allocated to our segments in our management reports because they were not considered in evaluating segment results.
Note 8.
Cost Plan
In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we announced a Cost Plan designed to align our cost structure to our long-term margin targets.
As part of this plan, we initiated a series of targeted actions across our businesses with the objective to reduce annual costs by $1 billion, excluding incremental costs resulting from any future acquisition of a business.
Actions taken under this plan have been completed and have resulted in us achieving substantially all of this target in fiscal 2019 based on our run rate exiting the second quarter of fiscal 2019, excluding litigation costs that are in excess of the baseline spend.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2019, we recorded net restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to our Cost Plan of $207 million in other expenses.
This consisted of restructuring-related charges of $151 million, primarily related to asset impairment charges (and included a $52 million net gain from the sale of certain assets related to wireless electric vehicle charging applications and the sale of our mobile health nonreportable segment), and restructuring charges of $56 million, primarily related to severance and consulting costs.
Since inception of the Cost Plan, we have incurred a total of $894 million in net restructuring and restructuring-related charges.
The remaining restructuring and restructuring-related charges to be incurred related to the plan are expected to be negligible.
The restructuring accrual, a portion of which was included in payroll and other benefits related liabilities with the remainder included in other current liabilities, is expected to be substantially paid within the next 12 months.
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the restructuring accrual was $21 million and $83 million, respectively.
Note 9.
Fair Value Measurements
Activity between Levels of the Fair Value Hierarchy.
There were no transfers of marketable securities into or out of Level 3 during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 24, 2018.
Other investments and other liabilities included in
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Level 3 at June 30, 2019 were comprised of debt instruments issued by private companies and contingent consideration related to business combinations, respectively.
There were no transfers of debt instruments or contingent consideration amounts into or out of Level 3 during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 24, 2018.
Assets Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2019, certain intangible assets and goodwill were written down to their estimated fair values (Note 8).
We also measured certain non-marketable equity securities received as non-cash consideration at fair value on a nonrecurring basis (Note 2).
The estimation of fair value required the use of significant unobservable inputs, and as a result, the fair value measurements were classified as Level 3.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 24, 2018, we did not have any other significant assets or liabilities that were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
Note 10.
Marketable Securities
Debt securities with no single maturity date included auction rate securities.
During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, there were no realized gains or losses on sales of available-for-sale debt securities, and during the three months ended June 24, 2018, gross realized gains and losses were negligible.
During the nine months ended June 24, 2018, gross realized gains and losses were $15 million and negligible, respectively.
As of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities were negligible.
As of September 30, 2018, available-for-sale securities also included equity securities with a fair value of $167 million, including an unrealized gain of $63 million.
Note 11.
Revision of Prior Period Financial Statements
We revised certain prior period financial statements for an immaterial error related to the recognition of certain royalty revenues of our QTL segment (Note 1).
A summary of revisions to our previously reported financial statements presented herein for comparative purposes is included below (in millions, except per share data).
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Revised Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Revised Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Revised Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).
Revised Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
We revised our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the nine months ended June 24, 2018 for this correction, which had no impact to net cash provided by operating activities in the period.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Revised Segment Information.
QTL segment results were revised for this correction (Note 7), which resulted in a decrease in QTL revenues and EBT (earnings before income taxes) of $22 million and $95 million for the three and nine months ended June 24, 2018, respectively.
ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Information regarding certain legal proceedings is provided in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6.
Commitments and Contingencies.” We are also engaged in numerous other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business and, while there can be no assurance, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these other legal actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
We have provided updated Risk Factors in the section labeled “Risk Factors” in “Part I, Item 2, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Other than the elimination of the Risk Factor entitled “If we are unsuccessful in executing our cost plan, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected,” we do not believe those updates have materially changed the type or magnitude of the risks we face in comparison to the disclosure provided in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.
