Revision of Prior Period Financial Statements.”

This Quarterly Report (including, but not limited to, this section regarding Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) contains forward-looking statements regarding our business, investments, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
Additionally, statements concerning future matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements, such as statements regarding our expectations concerning: industry, market, business, commercial, competitive or consumer trends; our businesses, growth potential or strategies, or factors that may impact them; attacks on our licensing business, including by licensees, customers, governments, governmental agencies or regulators, standards bodies or others; other legal or regulatory matters; competition; product or technology trends; new or expanded product areas, adjacent industry segments or applications; costs or expenditures including research and development, selling, general and administrative, restructuring or restructuring-related charges, working capital or information technology systems; our financing, stock repurchase or dividend programs; strategic investments or acquisitions; adoption and application of future accounting guidance; tax law changes; our tax structure or strategies; or the potential business or financial statement impacts of any of the above.
Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates” and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report.
Although forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report reflect our good faith judgment, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us.
Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include without limitation those discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.
Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report.
Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Quarterly Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
Second Quarter Fiscal 2019 Overview and Other Recent Events


•On April 16, 2019, we entered into settlement agreements with Apple and its contract manufacturers to dismiss all outstanding litigation between the parties.
We also entered into a six-year global patent license agreement with Apple, effective as of April 1, 2019, which includes an option for Apple to extend for two additional years, and a multi-year chipset supply agreement with Apple.
•We adopted new revenue recognition accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 that requires us to estimate and recognize QTL royalties in the period in which the associated sales occur, resulting in an acceleration of royalty revenues by one quarter compared to the prior method.
As a result of estimation, adjustments are recorded 


in subsequent quarters to reflect changes in estimates as new information becomes available, primarily when actual amounts are reported by licensees.
Prior period results have not been restated for the adoption of the new accounting guidance and continue to be reported in accordance with the accounting guidance in effect for those periods.
