item1.txt
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Encore Wire Corporation (the “Company”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete annual financial statements.
Results of operations for interim periods presented do not necessarily indicate the results that may be expected for the entire year.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The majority of our revenue is derived by fulfilling customer orders for the purchase of our products, which include electrical building wire and cable.
We recognize revenue at the point in time that control of the ordered product(s) is transferred to the customer, which is typically upon shipment to the customer from our manufacturing facilities and based on agreed upon shipping terms on the related purchase order.
Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified as accounts receivables on the balance sheet and require payment on a short-term basis through standard payment terms.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) is the sole source of authoritative U.S. GAAP other than Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued rules and regulations that apply only to SEC registrants.
The FASB issues an Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) to communicate changes to the codification.
The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs. The followings are those ASUs that are relevant to the Company.
In December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, “Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (SAB 118),” which allows the Company to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date.
Since the 2017 Tax Act was passed late in the fourth quarter of 2017, and ongoing guidance and accounting interpretation is expected over the next twelve months, management considers the deferred tax re-measurements and other items to be incomplete due to the forthcoming guidance and the ongoing analysis of final year-end data and tax positions.
The Company expects to complete its analysis within the measurement period in accordance with SAB 118.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606), which replaces numerous requirements in U.S. GAAP, including industry-specific requirements, and provides companies with a single revenue recognition model for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of ASC Topic 606 and all the related amendments to all of our contracts using the modified retrospective method.
Upon completing our implementation assessment of Topic ASC 606, we concluded that no adjustment was required to the opening balance of retained earnings at the date of initial application.
The comparative information has also not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
Additional disclosures required by ASC Topic 606 are presented under Revenue Recognition above.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize a right to use asset and a lease liability for all leases with terms of twelve months or longer.
Lessor accounting remains largely consistent with existing U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
The standard requires the use of a modified retrospective transition method.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method, or market.
LIFO pools are established at the end of each fiscal year.
During the first three quarters of every year, LIFO calculations are based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
Accordingly, interim LIFO balances will fluctuate depending on those inventory levels and costs.
In the first quarter of 2018, LIFO adjustments were recorded, increasing cost of sales by $2.0 million, versus LIFO adjustments increasing cost of sales by $4.4 million in the first quarter of 2017.
During the first quarter of 2018, the Company liquidated a portion of the LIFO inventory layer in the aluminum wire pool established in prior years.
This liquidation had an insignificant effect on the net income of the Company.
During the first quarter of 2017, the Company did not liquidate any LIFO inventory layers established in prior years.
Earnings per common and common equivalent share are computed using the weighted average number of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents outstanding during each period.
If dilutive, the effect of stock options, treated as common stock equivalents, is calculated using the treasury stock method.
The weighted average of employee stock options excluded from the determination of diluted earnings per common and common equivalent share for the first quarter was 146,000 in 2018 and 114,000 in 2017.
The Company was in compliance with the covenants as of March 31, 2018.
On November 10, 2006, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to an authorized number of shares of its common stock on the open market or through privately negotiated transactions at prices determined by the President of the Company during the term of the program.
The Company’s Board of Directors has authorized several increases and annual extensions of this stock repurchase program, and, as of March 31, 2018, 1,132,946 shares remained authorized for repurchase through March 31, 2019.
The Company did not repurchase any shares of its stock in the three months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017.
There were no changes to stockholders’ equity for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 other than net income, the declaration of dividends, stock compensation, and the issuance of immaterial amounts of shares of common stock.
On July 7, 2009, Southwire Company, a Delaware corporation (“Southwire”), filed a complaint for patent infringement against the Company and Cerro Wire, Inc.
In the complaint, Southwire alleged that the Company infringed one or more claims of United States Patent No. 7,557,301 (the “301 Patent”), entitled “Method of Manufacturing Electrical Cable Having Reduced Required Force for Installation,” by making and selling electrical cables, including the Company’s Super Slick cables.
The case has been transferred to the Northern District of Georgia and the parties have agreed to stay it pending reexamination of the 301 Patent by the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
In an inter partes reexamination proceeding, not involving the Company, concerning the ’301, the Patent and Trial Appeal Board found all claims of the ’301 patent invalid.
Subsequently, Southwire chose not to continue its appeal of the Patent and Trial Appeal Board decision.
On March 27, 2018 the parties filed a Stipulated Dismissal with Prejudice in the ’301 Patent case.
For information on the Company’s legal proceedings, see Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
There have been no material changes to the Company’s risk factors as disclosed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.


item2.txt
The Company is a significant supplier of building wire for interior electrical wiring in commercial and industrial buildings, homes, apartments, and manufactured housing.
Net sales were $291.4 million in the first quarter of 2018 compared to $279.4 million in the first quarter of 2017.
This 4.3% increase in net sales is primarily the result of a 6.4% increase in copper wire sales, driven by a 15.6% increase in the average selling price of copper wire offset by a 7.9% decrease in copper wire unit volume shipped.
Fluctuations in sales prices are primarily a result of changing copper and other raw material prices and product price competition.
The average cost per pound of raw copper purchased increased 18.3% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 and was the principal driver of the increased average sales price of copper wire.
Cost of goods sold was $253.9 million, or 87.1% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2018, compared to $240.2 million, or 86.0% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2017.
Gross profit decreased to $37.5 million, or 12.9% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2018 versus $39.2 million, or 14.0% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2017.
The decrease in gross profit margin percentage was driven by multiple factors, including a 7.9% decline in copper wire unit sales, which was more than offset by the increase of the copper wire spread.
The spread between the average price paid for a pound of raw copper and the average sales price for a pound of copper contained in finished wire increased 10.1% in the first quarter of 2018 versus the first quarter of 2017.
The spread increased as a result of the average sales price per copper pound sold increasing 15.6% while the per pound cost of raw copper increased 18.3%.
Increases in the cost of other raw materials more than offset the positive impact of the increased copper spread on gross profit margins.
The percentage change on sales is on a higher nominal dollar amount than on purchases and, therefore, spreads change on a nominal dollar basis.
Total raw materials cost, including the LIFO adjustment, increased to 76.5% of net sales in the first quarter of 2018, from 73.9% of net sales in the first quarter of 2017.
Lower overhead costs as a percentage of net sales somewhat offset this increase in total raw materials cost as a percentage of net sales.
The Company maintains two inventory pools for LIFO purposes.
As permitted by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the Company maintains its inventory costs and cost of goods sold on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis and makes a monthly adjustment to adjust total inventory and cost of goods sold from FIFO to LIFO.
The Company applies the lower of cost or market (LCM) test by comparing the LIFO cost of its raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods inventories to estimated market values, which are based primarily upon the most recent quoted market price of copper, aluminum and finished wire prices as of the end of each reporting period.
The Company performs a lower of cost or market calculation quarterly.
The Company maintains a substantial inventory of finished products to satisfy customers’ delivery requirements promptly.
As is customary in the building wire industry, the Company provides payment terms to most of its customers that exceed terms that it receives from its suppliers.
Copper suppliers generally give very short payment terms (less than 15 days) while the Company and the building wire industry give customers much longer terms.
In general, the Company’s standard payment terms result in the collection of a significant majority of net sales within approximately 75 days of the date of invoice.
As a result of this timing difference, building wire companies must have sufficient cash and access to capital resources to finance their working capital needs, thereby creating a barrier to entry for companies who do not have sufficient liquidity and capital resources.
The two largest components of working capital, receivables and inventory, and to a lesser extent, capital expenditures, are the primary drivers of the Company’s liquidity needs.
Generally, these needs will cause the Company’s cash balance to rise and fall inversely to the receivables and inventory balances.
The Company’s receivables and inventories will rise and fall in concert with several factors, most notably the price of copper and other raw materials and the level of unit sales.
Capital expenditures have historically been necessary to expand and update the production capacity of the Company’s manufacturing operations.
The Company has historically satisfied its liquidity and capital expenditure needs with cash generated from operations and borrowings under its various debt arrangements.
The Company historically uses its revolving credit facility to manage day to day operating cash needs as required by daily fluctuations in working capital and has the facility in place should such a need arise in the future.
Cash used in operating activities was $8.0 million in the first three months of 2018 compared to $4.4 million in the first three months of 2017.
The following changes in components of cash flow from operations were notable.
The Company had net income of $11.4 million in the first three months of 2018 compared to net income of $13.6 million in the first three months of 2017.
Accounts receivable increased $19.6 million in the first three months of 2018 compared to increasing $26.7 million in the first three months of 2017, resulting in a negative change in cash flow of $7.1 million in the first three months of 2018 versus the first three months of 2017.
Accounts receivable generally fluctuate in proportion to dollar sales and, to a lesser extent, are affected by the timing of when sales occur during a given quarter.
With an average of 60 to 75 days of sales outstanding, quarters in which sales are more back-end loaded will have higher accounts receivable balances outstanding at quarter-end.
Inventory value increased in the first three months of 2018 and 2017, using cash of $2.1 million and $2.4 million in the first three months of 2018 and 2017.
Trade accounts payable and accrued liabilities used cash of $6.6 million in 2018 versus a $9.2 million source of cash in 2017, resulting in a negative change in cash flow of $15.8 million.
In the first three months of 2018, changes in current and deferred taxes provided cash of $3.6 million versus using cash of $2.4 million in the first three months of 2017.
These changes in cash flow were the primary drivers of the $3.5 million increase in cash used in operations in the first three months of 2018 compared to the first three months of 2017.
Cash used in investing activities increased to $7.5 million in the first three months of 2018 from $4.6 million in the first three months of 2017, due to higher capital expenditures on plant and equipment.
million of cash dividends paid, partially offset by $0.3 million of proceeds from exercised stock options.
These changes in cash flow were the primary drivers of the $0.1 million of cash used in financing activities for the first three months of 2018 versus $0.2 million used in the first three months of 2017.
As of March 31, 2018, the balance on the Company’s revolving line of credit remained at zero.
The Company’s cash balance was $107.8 million at March 31, 2018 versus $86.5 million at March 31, 2017.
During the remainder of 2018, the Company expects its capital expenditures will consist primarily of expenditures related to the purchases of manufacturing equipment throughout its facilities to update equipment and address production bottlenecks.
The total capital expenditures for all of 2018 associated with these projects are currently estimated to be between $28 million and $33 million.
The Company also expects its future working capital requirements to fluctuate as a result of changes in unit sales volumes and the price of copper and other raw materials.
The Company believes that the current cash balance, cash flow from operations, and the financing available from its revolving credit facility will satisfy anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements during 2018.
Note 7 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report is hereby incorporated herein by reference.


item4.txt
The Company maintains controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by it in the reports it files with or submits to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the period covered by this report conducted by the Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files with or submits to the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
For information on the Company’s legal proceedings, see Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Note 7 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report is hereby incorporated herein by reference.


