item1.txt
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) is the sole source of authoritative U.S. GAAP other than Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued rules and regulations that apply only to SEC registrants.
The FASB issues an Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) to communicate changes to the codification.
The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs. The following are those ASUs that are relevant to the Company.
The Company has a minimal number of leases, all of which are classified as operating.
As a result of the adoption of ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842),” on January 1, 2019, the Company recorded $0.7 million of right of use assets which are included in other non-current assets, $0.2 million of current lease liabilities which are included in accounts payable and $0.5 million of long-term lease liabilities included in other non-current liabilities.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method, or market.
LIFO pools are established at the end of each fiscal year.
During the first three quarters of every year, LIFO calculations are based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
Accordingly, interim LIFO balances will fluctuate depending on those inventory levels and costs.
In the second quarter of 2019, LIFO adjustments were recorded, decreasing cost of sales by $3.3 million, versus LIFO adjustments increasing cost of sales by $1.7 million in the second quarter of 2018.
In the first six months of 2019, LIFO adjustments were
Earnings per common and common equivalent share are computed using the weighted average number of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents outstanding during each period.
If dilutive, the effect of stock options, treated as common stock equivalents, is calculated using the treasury stock method.
The weighted average of employee stock options excluded from the determination of diluted earnings per common and common equivalent share for the second quarter was 117,500 in 2019 and 166,500 in 2018.
The weighted average of employee stock options excluded from the determination of diluted earnings per common and common equivalent share for the six months ended June 30 was 117,500 in 2019 and 156,056 in 2018.
The Company was in compliance with the covenants as of June 30, 2019.
On November 10, 2006, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to an authorized number of shares of its common stock on the open market or through privately negotiated transactions at prices determined by the President of the Company during the term of the program.
The Company’s Board of Directors has authorized several increases and annual extensions of this stock repurchase program, and, as of June 30, 2019, 1,132,946 shares remained authorized for repurchase through March 31, 2020.
The Company did not repurchase any shares of its stock in the six months ended June 30, 2019 or 2018.
For information on the Company’s legal proceedings, see Note 8 to the Company’s financial statements included in Item 1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
There have been no material changes to the Company’s risk factors as disclosed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.


item2.txt
Encore believes it is a low-cost manufacturer of electrical building wire and cable.
The Company is a significant supplier of building wire for interior electrical wiring in commercial and industrial buildings, homes, apartments, and manufactured housing.
Net sales were $336.9 million in the second quarter of 2019 compared to $336.8 million in the second quarter of 2018.
The virtually identical net sales dollars are primarily the result of a 5.6% increase in copper wire unit volume shipped, offset by a 6.1% decrease in the average selling price of copper wire.
Unit volume is measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire shipped during the period.
The 5.6% increase in unit volume shipped was primarily due to strong construction industry demand despite rough spring weather in certain areas that slowed construction and impacted volumes in the second quarter of 2019.
Fluctuations in sales prices are primarily a result of changing copper and other raw material prices and product price competition.
The average cost per pound of raw copper purchased decreased 8.7% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018 and was the principal driver of the decreased average sales price of copper wire.
Cost of goods sold was $291.0 million, or 86.4% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2019, compared to $292.3 million, or 86.8% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2018.
Gross profit increased to $45.9 million, or 13.6% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2019 from $44.5 million, or 13.2% of net sales, in the second quarter of 2018.
The small increase in gross profit margin percentage was primarily the result of two factors that served to mostly offset each other.
Unit volumes increased 5.6%, while the spread between the average price paid for a pound of raw copper and the average sales price for a pound of copper contained in finished wire decreased 0.4% in the second quarter of 2019 versus the second quarter of 2018.
The spread decreased as a result of the average sales price per pound of copper sold decreasing 6.1% while the per pound cost of raw copper purchased decreased 8.7%.
The percentage change on sales is on a higher nominal dollar amount than on purchases and, therefore, spreads change on a nominal dollar basis.
The margin changes were due primarily to the competitive pricing environment in the industry.
In aluminum wire, which represented 8.0% of our net sales in the second quarter of 2019, we continue to enforce our rights under the U.S. trade remedy laws.
The Company maintains two inventory pools for LIFO purposes.
As permitted by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the Company maintains its inventory costs and cost of goods sold on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis and makes a monthly adjustment to adjust total inventory and cost of goods sold from FIFO to LIFO.
The Company applies the lower of cost or market (LCM) test by comparing the LIFO cost of its raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods inventories to estimated market values, which are based primarily upon the most recent quoted market price of copper and other material prices as of the end of each reporting period.
The Company performs a lower of cost or market calculation quarterly.
Net sales for the first six months of 2019 were $651.6 million compared to net sales of $628.2 million for the first six months of 2018.
This 3.7% increase in net sales is primarily the result of a 2.8% increase in copper wire sales, driven by a 9.3% increase in copper wire unit volume shipped, partially offset by a 5.9% decrease in the average selling price of copper wire.
Unit volume is measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire shipped during the period.
Fluctuations in sales prices are primarily a result of changing copper and other raw material prices and product price competition.
The average cost per pound of raw copper purchased decreased 9.1% in the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018 and was the principal driver of the decreased average sales price of copper wire.
Cost of goods sold increased to $564.3 million in the first six months of 2019, compared to $546.2 million in the first six months of 2018.
Gross profit increased to $87.2 million, or 13.4% of net sales, in the first six months of 2019 versus $82.0 million, or 13.1% of net sales, in the first six months of 2018.
The gross profit margin percentage increased primarily as a result of the 9.3% unit volume increase and an increase in the spread between the average price paid for a pound of raw copper and the average sale price for a pound of copper in the first six months of 2019 versus the first six months of 2018 due primarily to competitive industry pricing.
Fluctuations in sales prices are primarily a result of changing copper raw material prices and product price competition.
The copper spread increased 0.9% in the first six months of 2019 versus the first six months of 2018.
The spread increased as a result of the 5.9% decrease in the average sales price per copper pound sold while the per pound cost of raw copper decreased 9.1%.
In nominal dollars, the sales price decreased less than the cost of copper.
volume movements of other materials in the first six months of 2019, LIFO adjustments were recorded, increasing cost of sales by $0.5 million.
During the same period in 2018, LIFO adjustments were recorded, increasing cost of sales by $3.7 million.
Based on current copper prices, there is no LCM adjustment necessary.
Future reductions in the price of copper could require the Company to record an LCM adjustment against the related inventory balance, which would result in a negative impact on net income.
Selling expenses for the first six months of 2019 increased to $33.7 million, or 5.2% of net sales, compared to $32.9 million, or
The Company maintains a substantial inventory of finished products to satisfy customers’ delivery requirements promptly.
As is customary in the building wire industry, the Company provides payment terms to most of its customers that exceed terms that it receives from its suppliers.
Copper suppliers generally give very short payment terms (less than 15 days) while the Company and the building wire industry give customers much longer terms.
In general, the Company’s standard payment terms result in the collection of a significant majority of net sales within approximately 75 days of the date of invoice.
As a result of this timing difference, building wire companies must have sufficient cash and access to capital resources to finance their working capital needs, thereby creating a barrier to entry for companies who do not have sufficient liquidity and capital resources.
The two largest components of working capital, receivables and inventory, and to a lesser extent, capital expenditures, are the primary drivers of the Company’s liquidity needs.
Generally, these needs will cause the Company’s cash balance to rise and fall inversely to the receivables and inventory balances.
The Company’s receivables and inventories will rise and fall in concert with several factors, most notably the price of copper and other raw materials and the level of unit sales.
Capital expenditures have historically been necessary to expand and update the production capacity of the Company’s manufacturing operations.
The Company has historically satisfied its liquidity and capital expenditure needs with cash generated from operations and borrowings under its various debt arrangements.
The Company historically uses its revolving credit facility to manage day to day operating cash needs as required by daily fluctuations in working capital and has the facility in place should such a need arise in the future.
Cash provided by operating activities was $27.9 million in the first six months of 2019 compared to $6.0 million of cash used in the first six months of 2018.
The following changes in components of cash flow from operations were notable.
The Company had net income of $31.2 million in the first six months of 2019 compared to net income of $29.4 million in the first six months of 2018.
Accounts receivable increased $20.6 million in the first six months of 2019 and $29.5 million in the first six months of 2018, resulting in a positive change in cash flow of $8.9 million in the first six months of 2019 versus the first six months of 2018.
Accounts receivable generally fluctuate in proportion to dollar sales and, to a lesser extent, are affected by the timing of when sales occur during a given quarter.
With an average of 60 to 75 days of sales outstanding, quarters in which sales are more back-end loaded will have higher accounts receivable balances outstanding at quarter-end.
Inventory value decreased $6.3 million in the first six months of 2019 compared to increasing $4.5 million in the first six months 2018 producing a positive swing in cash flow of $10.8 million in 2019 versus 2018.
Trade accounts payable and accrued liabilities provided cash of $2.3 million in the first six months of 2019 versus using $9.6 million in the first six months of 2018, resulting in a positive change in cash flow of $11.9 million.
In the first six months of 2019, changes in current and deferred taxes used cash of $1.1 million versus a $1.3 million use of cash in the first six months of 2018.
These changes in cash flow were the primary drivers of the $33.8 million increase in cash provided by operations in the first six months of 2019 compared to the first six months of 2018.
During the remainder of 2019, the Company expects its capital expenditures will consist primarily of expenditures related to the purchases of manufacturing equipment throughout its facilities to update equipment and address production bottlenecks.
The total capital expenditures for all of 2019 associated with these projects are currently estimated to be between $40 million and $45 million.
The Company also expects its future working capital requirements to fluctuate as a result of changes in unit sales volumes and the price of copper and other raw materials.
The Company believes that the current cash balance, cash flow from operations, and the financing available from its revolving credit facility will satisfy anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements during 2019.
Note 7 to the Company’s financial statements included in Item 1 to this report is hereby incorporated herein by reference.


item4.txt
The Company maintains controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by it in the reports it files with or submits to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the period covered by this report conducted by the Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files with or submits to the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
For information on the Company’s legal proceedings, see Note 8 to the Company’s financial statements included in Item 1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Note 7 to the Company’s financial statements included in Item 1 to this report is hereby incorporated herein by reference.


