item1.txt
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) is the sole source of authoritative U.S. GAAP other than Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued rules and regulations that apply only to SEC registrants.
The FASB issues an Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) to communicate changes to the codification.
The Company considers the applicability and impact of all ASUs. The following are those ASUs that are relevant to the Company.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606),” which replaces numerous requirements in U.S. GAAP, including industry-specific requirements, and provides companies with a single revenue recognition model for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of ASC 606 and all the related amendments to all of our contracts using the modified retrospective method.
Upon completing our implementation assessment of ASC 606, we concluded that no adjustment was required to the opening balance of retained earnings at the date of initial application.
The comparative information has also not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
Additional disclosures required by ASC 606 are presented under Revenue Recognition above.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (ASC 842).” Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize a right to use asset and a lease liability for all leases with terms of twelve months or longer.
In July 2018, the FASB issued an ASU which provided a transition option that allows companies to continue applying the guidance under the current lease standard in the comparative periods presented in the financial statements.
Companies that elect this option would record a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings on the date of adoption.
The Company has elected to apply this transition option upon adoption.
The Company continues to evaluate the effect that ASC 842 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method, or market.
LIFO pools are established at the end of each fiscal year.
During the first three quarters of every year, LIFO calculations are based on the inventory levels and costs at that time.
Accordingly, interim LIFO balances will fluctuate depending on those inventory levels and costs.
In the third quarter of 2018, LIFO adjustments were recorded, decreasing cost of sales by $9.1 million, versus LIFO adjustments increasing cost of sales by $11.0 million in the third quarter of 2017.
In the first nine months of 2018, LIFO adjustments were recorded, decreasing cost of sales by $5.4 million, versus LIFO adjustments increasing cost of sales by $15.0 million in the first nine months of 2017.
Earnings per common and common equivalent share are computed using the weighted average number of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents outstanding during each period.
If dilutive, the effect of stock options, treated as common stock equivalents, is calculated using the treasury stock method.
The weighted average of employee stock options excluded from the determination of diluted earnings per common and common equivalent share for the third quarter was 166,500 in 2018 and 129,000 in 2017.
The weighted average of employee stock options excluded from the determination of diluted earnings per common and common equivalent share for the nine months ended September 30 was 159,537 in 2018 and 123,963 in 2017.
Such options were anti-dilutive for their respective periods.
The Company was in compliance with the covenants as of September 30, 2018.
On November 10, 2006, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to an authorized number of shares of its common stock on the open market or through privately negotiated transactions at prices determined by the President of the Company during the term of the program.
The Company’s Board of Directors has authorized several increases and annual extensions of this stock repurchase program, and, as of September 30, 2018, 1,132,946 shares remained authorized for repurchase through March 31, 2019.
The Company did not repurchase any shares of its stock in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 or 2017.
There were no changes to stockholders’ equity for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 other than net income, the declaration of dividends, stock compensation, and the issuance of immaterial amounts of shares of common stock.
For information on the Company’s legal proceedings, see Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
There have been no material changes to the Company’s risk factors as disclosed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.


item2.txt
Encore believes it is a low-cost manufacturer of electrical building wire and cable.
The Company is a significant supplier of building wire for interior electrical wiring in commercial and industrial buildings, homes, apartments, and manufactured housing.
The following discussion and analysis relate to factors that have affected the operating results of the Company for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Reference should also be made to the audited financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Cost of goods sold was $286.2 million, or 84.0% of net sales, in the third quarter of 2018, compared to $252.9 million, or 86.6% of net sales, in the third quarter of 2017.
Gross profit increased to $54.5 million, or 16.0% of net sales, in the third quarter of 2018 from $39.1 million, or 13.4% of net sales, in the third quarter of 2017.
The increase in gross profit margin percentage was driven principally by the increase of the copper wire spread.
The spread between the average price paid for a pound of raw copper and the average sales price for a pound of copper contained in finished wire increased 7.3% in the third quarter of 2018 versus the third quarter of 2017.
The spread increased as a result of the average sales price per pound of copper sold increasing 0.9% while the per pound cost of raw copper decreased 2.3%.
The percentage change on sales is on a higher nominal dollar amount than on purchases and, therefore, spreads change on a nominal dollar basis.
The margin changes were due primarily to the competitive pricing environment in the industry.
In aluminum wire, which represented 7.7% of our net sales in the third quarter of 2018, we continued to experience pressure on margins due to import competition from China.
Total raw materials cost, including the LIFO adjustment, decreased to 73.2% of net sales in the third quarter of 2018, from 74.8% of net sales in the third quarter of 2017.
Increased overhead costs added to the increase in total cost of sales dollars, although decreasing as a percent of net sales.
Overheads contain some fixed and semi-fixed components which do not fluctuate as much as sales dollars fluctuate.
The Company maintains two inventory pools for LIFO purposes.
As permitted by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the Company maintains its inventory costs and cost of goods sold on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis and makes a monthly adjustment to adjust total inventory and cost of goods sold from FIFO to LIFO.
The Company applies the lower of cost or market (LCM) test by comparing the LIFO cost of its raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods inventories to estimated market values, which are based primarily upon the most recent quoted market price of copper and other material prices as of the end of each reporting period.
The Company performs a lower of cost or market calculation quarterly.
However, decreases in copper and other material prices could necessitate establishing an LCM reserve in future periods.
Net sales for the first nine months of 2018 were $969.0 million compared to net sales of $863.0 million for the first nine months of 2017.
This 12.3% increase in net sales is primarily the result of a 13.7% increase in copper wire sales, driven by a 10.9% increase in the average selling price of copper wire and a 2.6% increase in copper wire unit volume shipped.
Unit volume is measured in pounds of copper contained in the wire shipped during the period.
Fluctuations in sales prices are primarily a result of changing copper and other raw material prices and product price competition.
The average cost per pound of raw copper purchased increased 10.9% in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017 and was the principal driver of the increased average sales price of copper wire.
Cost of goods sold increased to $832.5 million in the first nine months of 2018, from $748.8 million in the first nine months of 2017.
Gross profit increased to $136.5 million, or 14.1% of net sales, in the first nine months of 2018 from $114.2 million, or 13.2% of net sales, in the first nine months of 2017.
The increase in gross profit margin percentage was driven principally by the increase in the spread between the average price paid for a pound of raw copper and the average sale price for a pound of copper in the first nine months of 2018 versus the first nine months of 2017 due primarily to competitive industry pricing.
Fluctuations in sales prices are primarily a result of changing copper raw material prices and product price competition.
The copper spread increased 10.7% in the first nine months of 2018 versus the first nine months of 2017.
The spread increased as a result of the 10.9% increase in the average sales price per copper pound sold while the per pound cost of raw copper also increased 10.9%.
In nominal dollars, the sales price increased more than the cost of copper.
Selling expenses for the first nine months of 2018 increased to $50.4 million, or 5.2% of net sales, from $41.3 million, or 4.8% of net sales, in the same period of 2017.
Commissions paid to independent manufacturers’ representatives are paid as a relatively stable percentage of sales dollars, and therefore, exhibited little change in percentage terms, increasing $2.5 million in concert with the increased sales dollars.
Freight costs for the first nine months of 2018 increased to 2.7% of net sales, from 2.3% of net sales for the first nine months of 2017.
General and administrative expenses were $18.2 million, or 1.9% of net sales, in the first nine months of 2018 compared to $15.9 million, or 1.8% of net sales, in the first nine months of 2017.
The Company did not record any bad debt expense during the first nine months of 2018 and 2017.
The Company maintains a substantial inventory of finished products to satisfy customers’ delivery requirements promptly.
As is customary in the building wire industry, the Company provides payment terms to most of its customers that exceed terms that it receives from its suppliers.
Copper suppliers generally give very short payment terms (less than 15 days) while the Company and the building wire industry give customers much longer terms.
In general, the Company’s standard payment terms result in the collection of a significant majority of net sales within approximately 75 days of the date of invoice.
As a result of this timing difference, building wire companies must have sufficient cash and access to capital resources to finance their working capital needs, thereby creating a barrier to entry for companies who do not have sufficient liquidity and capital resources.
The two largest components of working capital, receivables and inventory, and to a lesser extent, capital expenditures, are the primary drivers of the Company’s liquidity needs.
Generally, these needs will cause the Company’s cash balance to rise and fall inversely to the receivables and inventory balances.
The Company’s receivables and inventories will rise and fall in concert with several factors, most notably the price of copper and other raw materials and the level of unit sales.
Capital expenditures have historically been necessary to expand and update the production capacity of the Company’s manufacturing operations.
The Company has historically satisfied its liquidity and capital expenditure needs with cash generated from operations and borrowings under its various debt arrangements.
The Company historically uses its revolving credit facility to manage day to day operating cash needs as required by daily fluctuations in working capital and has the facility in place should such a need arise in the future.
Cash provided by operating activities was $33.1 million in the first nine months of 2018 compared to $20.9 million of cash provided in the first nine months of 2017.
The following changes in components of cash flow from operations were notable.
The Company had net income of $53.1 million in the first nine months of 2018 compared to net income of $38.5 million in the first nine months of 2017.
Accounts receivable increased $41.7 million in the first nine months of 2018 compared to increasing $37.8 million in the first nine months of 2017, resulting in a negative change in cash flow of $3.9 million in the first nine months of 2018 versus the first nine months of 2017.
Accounts receivable generally fluctuate in proportion to dollar sales and, to a lesser extent, are affected by the timing of when sales occur during a given quarter.
With an average of 60 to 75 days of sales outstanding, quarters in which sales are more back-end loaded will have higher accounts receivable balances outstanding at quarter-end.
Inventory value increased in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, using cash of $3.6 million and $2.1 million in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017.
Trade accounts payable and accrued liabilities provided cash of $9.6 million in 2018 versus a $15.1 million source of cash in 2017, resulting in a negative change in cash flow of $5.5 million.
In the first nine months of 2018, changes in current and deferred taxes provided cash of $2.2 million versus a $4.3 million use of cash in the first nine months of 2017.
These changes in cash flow were the primary drivers of the $12.2 million increase in cash provided by operations in the first nine months of 2018 compared to the first nine months of 2017.
During the remainder of 2018, the Company expects its capital expenditures will consist primarily of expenditures related to the purchases of manufacturing equipment throughout its facilities to update equipment and address production bottlenecks.
The total capital expenditures for all of 2018 associated with these projects are currently estimated to be between $34 million and $39 million.
The Company also expects its future working capital requirements to fluctuate as a result of changes in unit sales volumes and the price of copper and other raw materials.
The Company believes that the current cash balance, cash flow from operations, and the financing available from its revolving credit facility will satisfy anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements during 2018.
Note 7 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report is hereby incorporated herein by reference.


item4.txt
The Company maintains controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by it in the reports it files with or submits to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the period covered by this report conducted by the Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files with or submits to the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
For information on the Company’s legal proceedings, see Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Note 7 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 to this report is hereby incorporated herein by reference.


