fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2019, which is effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2020.
The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals.
The SSP of hardware is cost plus a reasonable margin.
Revenue for support and maintenance services is recognized based on SSP, which is the renewal price, ratably over the life of the contract, which is generally three to five years.
Payment is due monthly for support services provided.
•Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin.
Payment is due monthly for subscriptions to third party content.


item2.txt
•TruBridge, our third reporting segment, focuses on providing business management, consulting, and managed IT services along with its complete revenue cycle management ("RCM") solution for all care settings, regardless of their primary healthcare information solutions provider.
•Get Real Health, included within our TruBridge segment, delivers technology solutions to improve patient outcomes and engagement strategies with care providers.
Our companies currently support approximately 1,000 acute care facilities and approximately 3,300 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with fewer than 200 acute care beds, with hospitals having fewer than 100 beds comprising approximately 98% of our acute care EHR client base.
See Note 16 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information on our three reportable segments.
Additionally, as we consider the long-term growth prospects of our business, we are seeking to further stabilize our revenues and cash flows and leverage TruBridge services as a growth agent in light of a relatively mature EHR marketplace.
As such, maintaining and growing recurring revenues are additional key components of our long-term growth strategy, aided by the aforementioned focus on customer retention, and includes a renewed focus on driving demand for subscriptions for our existing technology solutions.
Our business model is designed such that, as revenue growth materializes, earnings and profitability growth are naturally bolstered through the increased margin realization afforded us by operating leverage.
The provision of these recurring revenue services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins and operating margins.
For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group.
Using best practices of the combined companies' implementation processes, we have decreased travel costs for our acute care installations by approximately 25%.
Also, during the third quarter of 2018, we instituted a limited-time, voluntary severance program offering those employees meeting certain predetermined criteria severance packages involving continuing periodic cash payments and healthcare benefits for varying periods, depending upon the individual's years of service with the Company.
Additionally, healthcare organizations with a large dependency on Medicare and Medicaid populations, such as community hospitals, have been affected by the challenging financial condition of the federal government and many state governments and government programs.
Accordingly, we recognize that prospective hospital clients often do not have the necessary capital to make investments in information technology.
Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Even disclosure controls and procedures determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance that their objectives are achieved.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings.


