ITEM 2 — MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



In March 2019, Xerox Corporation (“Xerox”) announced plans to create a new public holding company, Xerox Holdings Corporation (“Xerox Holdings”), by implementing a holding company reorganization (the “Reorganization”). On July 31, 2019, Xerox completed the Reorganization. In the Reorganization, Xerox became a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Xerox Holdings and Xerox Holdings became the successor issuer to Xerox. We believe implementation of a holding company structure will provide us with flexibility to develop and realize a range of strategic growth opportunities, including by pursuing different capital structures for new businesses, whether incubated or acquired. Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation, Corporate Reorganization, in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Reorganization. 







Currency Impact



To understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency. We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Overview



Third Quarter 2019 Review 



Total revenue of $2.20 billion for third quarter 2019 declined 6.5% from third quarter 2018, including a 1.2-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. The decrease in revenue reflected a decrease of 7.3% in Post sale revenue, including a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, and a decrease of 3.3% in Equipment sales revenue, including a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. The decline in Post sale revenue reflected the continuing trends of lower page volumes, an ongoing competitive price environment, a lower population of devices, as well as lower transactional revenue from unbundled supplies and paper in our Latin America region. These declines were partially offset by the implementation of a large transactional IT sales arrangement from our XBS organization. The decline in Equipment sales primarily reflected lower sales of our office-centric devices (entry and mid-range products) partially offset by higher sales of our production-centric systems (high-end). 



Total revenue of $6.70 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 declined 8.2% as compared to the prior year period, including a 1.7-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. The decrease in revenue reflected a decrease of 8.3% in Post sale revenue, including a 1.7-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, and a decrease of 8.0% in Equipment sales revenue, including a 1.6-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. The decline in Post sale revenue reflected the continuing trends of lower page volumes, an ongoing competitive price environment and a lower population of devices, as well as lower transactional revenue from unbundled supplies and paper in our Latin America region. The decline in Equipment sales primarily reflected lower revenues from our mid-range products, which were impacted by organizational changes within the XBS sales organization, that continue to stabilize, as we transitioned a significant number of accounts from U.S. Enterprise in the first half of 2019. 







Third quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings increased $132 million as compared to third quarter 2018 primarily due to lower non-service retirement-related costs and Income tax expense as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates. In addition, lower revenues were more than offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions. Third quarter 2019 Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox Holdings increased $26 million as compared to third quarter 2018. The increase reflected increased operating profits as a result of the continued benefits from cost savings and productivity improvements from Project Own It, which more than offset the pace of revenue decline, as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.



Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $311 million as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower Income tax expense and non-service retirement-related costs. The increase also reflected the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions, which more than offset the impact of lower revenues. These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs. Adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased $87 million as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily related to higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates as well as increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from Project Own It, which more than offset the decline in revenues.



Cash flows provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $895 million, as compared to $725 million in the prior year period primarily reflecting lower working capital2, increased dividends from equity investments, and lower cash payments for Transaction and related costs, net. These benefits were partially offset by higher payments for restructuring related costs as well as taxes. Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $68 million including capital expenditures of $48 million and acquisitions of $42 million partially offset by proceeds from the sale of non-core assets. Cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $983 million reflecting payments of $406 million on Senior Notes, $368 million for share repurchases and dividend payments of $183 million.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 





Revenues in the first half of 2019 were impacted by organizational changes, primarily in North America. This impact gradually mitigated during the latter part of the second quarter and was much less of an impact in the third quarter. We expect total revenues to decline approximately 7.9% in 2019, including an approximate 1.5-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. Additionally, we continue to expect share repurchases of at least $600 million and dividend payments to shareholders of $250 million in 2019 and we increased our expectations for full year 2019 cash flows from operations to be between $1,175 million and $1,275 million, up from between $1,150 million to $1,250 million, and decreased our expectations for capital expenditures to $75 million, down from $150 million.









HP Inc. Agreement



During second quarter 2019, we entered into an arrangement to expand our existing sourcing relationship with HP Inc. (HP). As part of the new arrangement, we will start sourcing certain A4 and entry-level A3 products from HP to diversify our supply chain. Many of these devices will operate with our ConnectKey software, a key differentiator in the marketplace.



In addition, we will provide toner for both our printers included in this agreement and certain HP printers, which will allow us to add volume to our emulsion aggregation (EA) toner plant in Webster, NY. Further, as part of our growth strategy to increase our penetration of the small-to-medium size business (SMB) market, Xerox will also become a Device as a Service (DaaS) partner for HP in the US. We will be able to sell HP PCs, displays and accessories, with or without DaaS, to our US SMB clients. Lastly, HP will also make DocuShare Flex, Xerox's cloud-based content management platform, available on commercial PCs distributed in the U.S., giving a major lift to our software growth strategy.



Restructure of Fujifilm Relationship 





Refer to Note 23 - Subsequent Event in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these agreements as well as in our Current Report on form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 5, 2019.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Financial Review



Revenues





CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.











Post sale revenue 







Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 











Equipment sales revenue







CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.





•Entry - The decrease in both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the respective prior year periods, reflected lower sales of devices primarily from developing market regions in EMEA reflecting in part continued weakness and delayed decisions as a result of uncertainty in the economic environment. Revenues 



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 





The decrease for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the prior year period, was driven by lower sales in North America, primarily reflecting the transitional impact associated with recently implemented organizational changes in our XBS sales organization, which continued to gradually stabilize in the third quarter 2019. The organizational changes were part of our Project Own It transformation actions and include the transitioning of accounts to implement coverage changes, consolidation of real estate locations and the reduction of management layers. The decrease also reflected lower revenues from our indirect channels in the U.S. and lower installs, primarily in our Americas region, as well as a lack of large deals in EMEA.



•High-end - The increase in both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the respective prior year periods, reflected higher sales of color systems associated with continued demand for our Iridesse production press and installs of our Versant production systems, as well as higher sales of iGen press in the U.S. in third quarter 2019. These increases were partially offset by continued lower sales of black-and-white systems. Additionally, revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were impacted by lower sales from our XBS sales organization, which continued to gradually stabilize from the impact of organizational changes that were part of our Project Own It transformation actions, (including the transitioning of accounts to implement coverage changes, consolidation of real estate locations and the reduction of management layers).



Total Installs



Installs reflect new placement of devices only. Revenue associated with equipment installations may be reflected up-front in Equipment sales or over time either through rental income or as part of our Xerox Services revenues (which are both reported within our post sale revenues), depending on the terms and conditions of our agreements with customers. Installs include activity from Xerox Services and Xerox-branded products shipped to our XBS sales unit. Detail by product group (see Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions) is shown below.







•10% increase in color multifunction devices reflecting higher installs of ConnectKey devices primarily from our indirect channels in the U.S. partially offset by lower installs from EMEA.



•6% decrease in black-and-white multifunction devices driven by lower activity primarily from our indirect channels in the U.S. and from EMEA.





•2% increase in mid-range color installs primarily reflecting installs associated with a large account's refresh cycle order.



•20% decrease in mid-range black-and-white reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices primarily from developing market regions and from our indirect channels in the U.S. The decline also reflected global market trends.





•12% increase in high-end color installs reflecting continued demand for our Iridesse production press and higher installs of our lower-end Versant production systems as well as higher activity from iGen in North America.



•22% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems. 







•1% increase in color multifunction devices reflecting higher installs of ConnectKey devices primarily from our indirect channels in the U.S. partially offset by lower installs from EMEA.



•2% decrease installs of black-and-white multifunction devices reflecting lower activity primarily from U.S. Enterprise and from EMEA, partially offset by higher activity from our indirect channels in the U.S., as well as from XBS.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 





•6% decrease in mid-range color installs reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices primarily in our Americas region. The decrease was significantly impacted by lower activity as a result of the transactional impact associated with recently implemented organizational changes in our XBS sales organization (as part of our Project Own It transformation actions), which included the transitioning of accounts to implement coverage changes, consolidation of real estate locations and the reduction of management layers. 



•16% decrease in mid-range black-and-white reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices primarily from indirect channels in the U.S. and from EMEA.





•1% decrease in high-end color installs reflecting lower activity from iGen primarily in EMEA, partially offset by continued strong demand for our Iridesse production press and higher installs of our Versant production and inkjet cut-sheet systems. 



•22% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends. 









Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions





•Americas, which includes our sales channels in the U.S. and Canada, as well as Mexico, and Central and South America.



•EMEA, which includes our sales channels in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India. 



•Other, primarily includes our OEM business, as well as sales to and royalties from Fuji Xerox, and our licensing revenue. 





•“Entry”, which includes A4 devices and desktop printers. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $150 to $3,000.



•“Mid-Range”, which includes A3 Office and Light Production devices that generally serve workgroup environments in mid to large enterprises. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $2,000 to $75,000+.



•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises. Prices for these systems can range from approximately $30,000 to $1,000,000+.



•Xerox Services, formerly known as Managed Document Services (MDS), which includes solutions and services that span from managing print to automating processes to managing content. Our primary offerings are Intelligent Workplace Services (IWS), which is our rebranded Managed Print Services, as well as Digital and Cloud Print Services (including centralized print services). Xerox Services also includes Communication and Marketing Solutions that were previously excluded from our former MDS definition. 







Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Costs, Expenses and Other Income 



Summary of Key Financial Ratios











Pre-tax Income Margin



Third quarter 2019 pre-tax income margin of 10.5% increased 2.3-percentage points as compared to third quarter 2018. The increase was primarily driven by lower operating expenses, primarily reflecting the net benefit from our Project Own It transformation actions, which more than offset the adverse impact of lower revenues. The increase also reflected lower Other Expenses, net, partially offset by higher Transaction and related costs, net, due to a prior year credit associated with recoveries from insurance and other vendors.



Pre-tax income margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of 7.7% increased 1.4-percentage points as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by lower Transaction and related costs, net and lower Other Expenses, net as well lower operating expenses, primarily reflecting the net benefit from our Project Own It transformation actions. These benefits more than offset the adverse impact of higher Restructuring and related costs and lower revenues. 





Third quarter 2019 adjusted1 operating margin of 12.1% increased 1.2-percentage points as compared to third quarter 2018 primarily reflecting the impact of SAG reductions and cost productivity associated with our Project Own It transformation actions, which more than offset the pace of revenue decline and an approximate 0.2-percentage point unfavorable impact from transaction currency. The increase also reflected a $5 million favorable impact from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of certain IT projects. 



Adjusted1 operating margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of 12.0% increased 1.4-percentage points as compared to the prior year period primarily reflecting the impact of SAG reductions and cost productivity associated with our Project Own It transformation actions, which more than offset the pace of revenue decline and an approximate 0.3-percentage point unfavorable impact from transaction currency. The increase also reflected a $34 million favorable impact from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of certain IT projects and the accelerated depreciation associated with the exit of a surplus real estate facility. 







Gross Margin



Third quarter 2019 gross margin of 40.0% decreased 0.1-percentage points as compared to third quarter 2018, and reflected an approximate 0.2-percentage point unfavorable impact from transaction currency, and the impact of lower equipment and supplies sales revenues as well as lower page volumes offset by cost productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of 39.8% decreased 0.1-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, and reflected an approximate 0.3-percentage point unfavorable impact from transaction currency, due to lower equipment and post sale margin, which reflected the unfavorable volume and mix impacts of lower sales, primarily from mid-range equipment in our XBS organization, as well as targeted price actions almost entirely offset by cost productivity.



Third quarter 2019 equipment gross margin of 34.4% decreased 0.2-percentage points as compared to third quarter 2018, reflecting cost productivity and the favorable mix impact of higher sales of high-end production systems offset by an approximate 0.6-percentage point unfavorable impact from transaction currency and selective price investments.



Equipment gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of 32.9% decreased 0.1-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, including an approximate 0.8-percentage point unfavorable impact from transaction currency reflecting cost productivity, partially offset by the unfavorable volume and mix impacts of lower sales, primarily from mid-range equipment in our XBS organization, as well as selective price investments.



Third quarter 2019 post sale gross margin of 41.6% was flat as compared to third quarter 2018 as a result of productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions, which entirely offset the impact of lower revenues, including lower pricing on contract renewals. 



Post sale gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of 41.7% decreased 0.1-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, driven by the impact of lower revenues, including lower pricing, almost entirely offset by productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions. 



Gross margins are expected to be negatively impacted in future periods as a result of an increase in the cost of our imported products from higher import tariffs. We are taking actions to mitigate the impacts of these tariffs, such as raising prices on certain products, however, we currently estimate approximately $24 million of gross cost impacts from these higher tariffs in 2019, with a significant portion impacting the fourth quarter 2019.















Selling, Administrative and General Expenses (SAG)



SAG as a percentage of revenue of 23.3% decreased by 1.5-percentage points as compared to third quarter 2018, primarily reflecting the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our Project Own It transformation actions. 



SAG of $513 million decreased $70 million as compared to third quarter 2018, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as lower compensation and incentives (consistent with lower revenues); the decrease also includes the favorable impacts of approximately $6 million from translation currency and $5 million from higher costs in the prior year associated with the termination of certain IT projects. Bad debt expense of $13 million was $3 million higher compared to third quarter 2018 and on a trailing twelve month basis (TTM) remained at less than one percent of total receivables.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



SAG as a percentage of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of 23.6% decreased by 1.5-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, primarily reflecting the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our Project Own It transformation actions. 



SAG for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of $1,580 million decreased $255 million as compared to the prior year period, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as lower compensation and incentives (consistent with lower revenues); the decrease also includes favorable impacts of approximately $28 million from translation currency and $34 million from higher costs in the prior year related to the termination of certain IT projects and the accelerated depreciation associated with the exit of a surplus real estate facility. Bad debt expense of $38 million was $3 million higher compared to the prior year period and on a trailing twelve month basis (TTM) remained at less than one percent of total receivables.



Restructuring and Related Costs























Restructuring and asset impairment costs were $80 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and included $37 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 450 employees worldwide, $18 million of other contractual termination costs and $48 million of asset impairment charges. These costs were partially offset by $23 million of net reversals, primarily resulting from changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives as well as $6 million in favorable adjustments from the early termination of prior period impaired leases. 



The implementation of our Project Own It initiatives as well as other business transformation initiatives is expected to result in significant cost savings in 2019 and future years. However, expected savings associated with these initiatives may be offset to some extent by business disruption during the implementation phase and until the initiatives are fully implemented and stabilized.



Third quarter 2018 Restructuring and related costs of $29 million included $40 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 900 employees worldwide and $1 million of lease cancellation costs. These 



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 





Restructuring and related costs were $91 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and included $104 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 1,850 employees worldwide and $13 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $26 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.



The restructuring reserve balance as of September 30, 2019 for all programs was $57 million, which is expected to be paid over the next twelve months.



Refer to Note 12 - Restructuring Programs in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs.



Transaction and Related Costs, Net



Transaction and related costs, net are expenses incurred in connection with Xerox's planned transaction with Fuji, which was terminated in May 2018, net of recoveries and settlements, as well as costs associated with certain litigation as a result of the terminated transaction and other shareholder actions. Transaction and related costs, net for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $8 million as compared to $63 million in the prior year period. The costs in 2019 primarily relate to ongoing costs for litigation associated with the terminated Fuji transaction, which are expected to continue. We also continue to pursue additional recoveries from insurance carriers and other parties for costs and expenses related to the terminated Fuji transaction and related shareholder litigation and therefore additional recoveries and adjustments may be recorded in future periods, when finalized. 



Amortization of Intangible Assets



Amortization of intangible assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of $35 million decreased by $1 million as compared to the prior year period. 



Worldwide Employment



Worldwide employment was approximately 27,600 as of September 30, 2019 and decreased by approximately 4,800 from December 31, 2018. The reduction resulted from net attrition (attrition net of gross hires), of which a large portion is not expected to be backfilled, as well as the impact of organizational changes including employees transferred as part of the shared services arrangement entered into with HCL Technologies earlier this year.



Other Expenses, Net





Non-Financing Interest Expense



Third quarter non-financing interest expense of $27 million was $1 million lower than third quarter 2018. When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $1 million from third quarter 2018 primarily due to a lower debt balance.



Non-financing interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of $80 million was $4 million lower than the prior year period. When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $6 million from the prior year period primarily due to a lower debt balance.



Refer to Note 13 - Debt in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the interest expense.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Non-Service Retirement-Related Costs



Non-service retirement-related costs for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased $35 million and $62 million, respectively, as compared to the prior year periods, primarily driven by the favorable impact of a 2018 amendment to our U.S. Retiree Health Plan and lower losses from pension settlements in the U.S.



Refer to Note 16 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding non-service retirement-related costs.



Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets



Gains on sales of businesses and assets for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased $16 million as compared to the third quarter 2018, reflecting the sale of non-core business assets in the third quarter 2019. Gains on sales of businesses and assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $15 million as compared to the prior year period, reflecting the higher sales of non-core business assets in the prior year.



Litigation Matters



Litigation matters for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $9 million lower than the prior year period, reflecting the favorable resolution of certain litigation matters in third quarter 2019.



Contract Termination Costs - IT Services



Contract termination costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 were an $8 million credit reflecting an adjustment to a $43 million penalty recorded in fourth quarter 2018, associated with the termination of an IT service arrangement.



Income Taxes











Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable.







Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Equity in Net Income (Loss) of Unconsolidated Affiliates





Equity in net income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox Net income (loss). For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, equity income increased $15 million and $143 million as compared to the prior year periods, primarily reflecting savings from Fuji Xerox restructuring. Equity income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, also increased as a result of $7 million and $71 million of lower year-over-year charges related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other charges, as compared to the respective prior year periods. Additionally, equity income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased as a result of an approximate $28 million charge related to an out-of-period charge at Fuji Xerox in the prior year. 



Refer to Note 11 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our Investment in Fuji Xerox as well as the prior period out-of-period adjustment.



Net Income



Third quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $221 million, or $0.96 per diluted share. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $248 million, or $1.08 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.



Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $535 million, or $2.27 per diluted share. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $700 million, or $2.97 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.



Third quarter 2018 Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $89 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, which included an estimated non-cash charge of $95 million or $0.37 per diluted share associated with the Tax Act. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $222 million, or $0.85 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.



Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $224 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, which included an estimated non-cash charge of $95 million or $0.37 per diluted share associated with the Tax Act. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox Holdings was $613 million, or $2.33 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.



Refer to Note 21 - Earnings per Share in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share.







Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income





Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 





Refer to Note 20 - Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for the components of Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income, Note 14 - Financial Instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding unrealized gains (losses), net, and Note 16 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding net changes in our defined benefit plans.



Capital Resources and Liquidity



As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $979 million and $1,148 million, respectively. There were no borrowings under our Credit Facility at September 30, 2019 or December 31, 2018, respectively. The decrease in total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash primarily reflects the repayment of $406 million of maturing Senior Notes in first quarter 2019.



We have updated our expectations for operating cash flows from continuing operations to be between $1,175 million and $1,275 million from our original expectation of between $1,150 million and $1,250 million, as well as our expectation for capital expenditures to be approximately $75 million from our original expectation of $150 million. We continue to expect dividend payments to shareholders of approximately $250 million and share repurchases of at least $600 million in 2019. 



Cash Flow Analysis







Cash Flows from Operating Activities





•$31 million decrease in pre-tax income before Transaction and related costs, net, Depreciation and amortization, Net gain on sales of businesses and assets, Restructuring and asset impairment charges, Defined benefit pension costs and Retiree Health costs.



•$124 million increase primarily due to lower levels of inventories partially reflecting lower sales volume and improved inventory management.



•$69 million increase due to lower placements of equipment on operating leases.



•$59 million increase from lower restructuring payments primarily due to timing of initiatives and actions.



•$45 million increase due to lower net payments for transaction and related costs as current year payments are primarily limited to costs related to on-going litigation.



•$32 million increase in dividends received from equity investments primarily due to increased net income from Fuji Xerox.



•$28 million increase from the settlements of foreign currency derivative contracts associated with our Yen-denominated inventory purchases.



•$25 million increase from accounts receivable primarily due to the timing of collections and lower revenues.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



•$61 million decrease due to payments associated with restructuring related costs primarily for our contractual severance obligation incurred as part of the shared service arrangement with HCL Technologies and professional support services associated with our business transformation initiatives.



•$57 million decrease due to a lower net run-off of finance receivables reflecting a lower balance of receivables as well as an increased level of originations.



•$32 million decrease from the change in accounts payable primarily related to lower inventory and other spending as well as the year-over-year timing of supplier and vendor payments.



•$26 million decrease due to higher net tax payments



Cash Flows from Investing Activities





•$42 million decrease primarily due to two acquisitions.



•$11 million decrease primarily due to lower proceeds from the sales of assets.



•$25 million increase reflecting lower capital expenditures.



Cash Flows from Financing Activities





•$93 million increase from net debt activity. 2019 reflects payments of $406 million on Senior Notes compared to prior year payments of $265 million on Senior Notes, $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $19 million of bridge facility costs.



•$84 million increase due to share repurchases.



Adoption of New Leasing Standard



On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC Topic 842). This update, as well as additional amendments and targeted improvements issued in 2018 and early 2019, supersedes existing lease accounting guidance found under ASC 840, Leases (ASC 840) and requires the recognition of right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases originally classified as operating leases under prior lease guidance.





•Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements



•Note 3 - Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Lessee



•Note 4 - Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Lessor 



Potential Customer Financing Transaction



In connection with the Company's strategic initiative to simplify and optimize its operations, the Company conducted a thorough evaluation of its customer financing business, including consideration of strategic alternatives for the business. The Company received multiple bids to purchase all or a portion of the business at an attractive premium, but has determined that retaining and optimizing the business through Project Own It will generate the greatest return for shareholders.



Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash



Refer to Note 7 - Supplementary Financial Information in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Debt and Customer Financing Activities











Finance Assets and Related Debt





















Debt Activity 



Senior Notes Repayment



In first quarter 2019, we repaid approximately $406 million of maturing Senior Notes.



Sales of Accounts Receivable









Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Refer to Note 8 - Accounts Receivable, Net in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our accounts receivable sales arrangements.



Liquidity and Financial Flexibility



We manage our worldwide liquidity using internal cash management practices, which are subject to i) the statutes, regulations and practices of each of the local jurisdictions in which we operate, ii) the legal requirements of the agreements to which we are a party and iii) the policies and cooperation of the financial institutions we utilize to maintain and provide cash management services.







Treasury Stock



In connection with the reorganization of Xerox Corporation’s corporate structure into a holding company structure, in July 2019, Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program (exclusive of any commissions and other transaction fees and costs related thereto.) This program replaced the $1.0 billion of authority remaining under Xerox Corporation’s previously authorized $2.0 billion share repurchase program. 



Xerox Holdings repurchased 2.4 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $68 million, including fees, in third quarter 2019. Xerox Holdings repurchased 11.6 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $368 million, including fees, during the nine months ended September 30, 2019. The full year repurchases include the shares repurchased under Xerox Corporation's previously authorized share repurchase program. The cumulative total shares repurchased by Xerox Holdings, including the shares repurchased under Xerox Corporation's previously authorized program from July 2018, is 37.7 million shares at a cost of $1.1 billion, including fees through September 30, 2019. 



Xerox Holdings repurchased an additional 2.8 million shares with an aggregate cost of $83 million, including fees, from October 1, 2019 through October 31, 2019. We continue to expect full year 2019 share repurchases of at least $600 million.



For information related to the Reorganization of Xerox Corporation and Xerox Holdings, refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation - Corporate Reorganization in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information regarding our share repurchase program, refer to Note 17 - Shareholders' Equity of Xerox Holdings Corporation in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 18 - Shareholders' Equity of Xerox Corporation in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Financial Risk Management





We are required to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet. As permitted, certain of these derivative contracts have been designated for hedge accounting treatment. Certain of our derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are effective as economic hedges. These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility. The level of volatility will vary with the type and amount of derivative hedges outstanding, as well as fluctuations in the currency and interest rate markets during the period. The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities.



By their nature, all derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market and credit risk. The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency exchange and interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. We do not believe there is significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments because these transactions are executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions. Further, our policy is to deal with counterparties having a minimum investment grade or better credit rating. Credit risk is managed through the continuous monitoring of exposures to such counterparties.



The current market events have not required us to materially modify or change our financial risk management strategies with respect to our exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risk. Refer to Note 14 – Financial Instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion and information on our financial risk management strategies.



Non-GAAP Financial Measures



We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, we have discussed our financial results using the non-GAAP measures described below. We believe these non-GAAP measures allow investors to better understand the trends in our business and to better understand and compare our results. Accordingly, we believe it is necessary to adjust several reported amounts, determined in accordance with GAAP, to exclude the effects of certain items as well as their related income tax effects.





These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.



Adjusted Earnings Measures



•Net income and Earnings per share (EPS)



•Effective tax rate







Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



costs. All of these costs can vary significantly in terms of amount and frequency based on the nature of the actions as well as the changing needs of the business. Accordingly, due to that significant variability, we will exclude these charges since we do not believe they provide meaningful insight into our current or past operating performance nor do we believe they are reflective of our expected future operating expenses as such charges are expected to yield future benefits and savings with respect to our operational performance. 













•Contract termination costs - IT Services



•Impacts associated with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act") enacted in December 2017 



We believe the exclusion of these items allows investors to better understand and analyze the results for the period as compared to prior periods and expected future trends in our business.



Adjusted Operating Income and Margin



We calculate and utilize adjusted operating income and margin measures by adjusting our reported pre-tax income and margin amounts. In addition to the costs and expenses noted as adjustments for our Adjusted Earnings measures, adjusted operating income and margin also exclude the remaining amounts included in Other expenses, net, which are primarily non-financing interest expense and certain other non-operating costs and expenses. We exclude these amounts in order to evaluate our current and past operating performance and to better understand the expected future trends in our business.



Constant Currency (CC)



Refer to "Currency Impact" for a discussion of this measure and its use in our analysis of revenue growth. 



Summary



Management believes that all of these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period’s results against the corresponding prior period’s results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are 



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.

















Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 





















Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



ITEM 2 — UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS





During the quarter ended September 30, 2019, Xerox Holdings Corporation issued the following securities in transactions that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Act”).







d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.





In connection with the reorganization of Xerox Corporation’s corporate structure into a holding company structure, in July 2019, Xerox Holdings Corporation’s Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program (exclusive of any commissions and other transaction fees and costs related thereto.) This program replaced the $1.0 billion of authority remaining under Xerox Corporation’s previously authorized $2.0 billion share repurchase program. Shares of Xerox Holdings Corporation’s common stock may be repurchased on the open market, or through derivative or negotiated transactions. Open-market repurchases will be made in compliance with the Securities and Exchanges Commission’s Rule 10b-18, and are subject to market conditions, as well as applicable legal and other considerations.













Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 













