ITEM 2 — MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS





Throughout this document, references to “we,” “our,” the “Company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries. References to “Xerox Corporation” refer to the stand-alone parent company and do not include its subsidiaries.



Currency Impact



To understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency. We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.



Overview



First Quarter 2019 Review 



Total revenue of $2.21 billion for first quarter 2019 declined 9.4% from first quarter 2018, including a 2.4-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. The decrease in revenue reflected a 9.2% decrease in Post sale revenue, including a 2.4-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, and a 10.2% decrease in Equipment sales revenue, including a 2.6-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. The decline in Post sale revenue reflected the continuing trends of lower page volumes, an ongoing competitive price environment and a lower population of devices, as well as lower transactional Post sale revenue from unbundled supplies and paper in our developing market sales units and XBS IT network integration sales. The declines in Post sale revenues were larger in the U.S. where we recently implemented organizational changes as part of our Project Own It transformation actions. The decline in Equipment sales primarily reflected lower revenues from our mid-range products as some areas were impacted by organizational changes we implemented and within XBS where we transitioned a significant number of accounts from U.S. Enterprise. 







The increase in Net income attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the prior year period, was primarily due to the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements from our Project Own It transformation actions, which offset the impact of lower revenues, as well as lower Transaction and related costs, net, lower Income tax expense and higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates. These benefits were partially offset by higher Restructuring and related costs. The increase in adjusted1 net income attributable to Xerox for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to increased operating profits reflecting the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements, which offset the decline in revenues, as well as higher Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates.



Cash flows provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $226 million, as compared to $216 million in first quarter 2018. The increase reflects improved cash flow from earnings and lower restructuring payments, which were partially offset by a use of cash for working capital2 and accrued compensation. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $18 million including capital expenditures of $15 



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



million and acquisitions of $4 million. Cash used in financing activities was $569 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 reflecting payments of $406 million on Senior Notes, $103 million for share repurchases and dividend payments of $62 million.









Financial Review



Revenues





CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.











Post sale revenue 





•Services, maintenance and rentals revenue includes rental and maintenance revenue (including bundled supplies) as well as the post sale component of the document services revenue from our Xerox Services offerings. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 these revenues decreased 8.3% as compared to the first quarter 2018, including a 2.5-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. The decline at constant currency1 reflected the continuing trends of lower page volumes (including a higher mix of lower usage products), an ongoing competitive price environment and a lower population of devices, which are partially associated with continued lower Enterprise signings and installs in prior periods. These declines were larger in the U.S. where we recently implemented organizational changes as part of our Project Own It transformation actions. 



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 









Equipment sales revenue







CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.





•Mid-range - For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the decrease, as compared to first quarter 2018, reflected lower sales from our Americas sales organization, including our XBS sales unit which were further affected by the transitional impact associated with recently implemented organizational changes as part of our Project Own It transformation actions (including the transitioning of accounts to implement coverage changes, consolidation of real estate locations and the reduction of management layers), partially offset by higher sales from our European sales operations.



•High-end - For the three months ended March 31, 2019, revenue was nearly flat, as compared to first quarter 2018, and was driven by lower sales from our Americas sales organization, mostly offset by growth from our European region. The decline in installs was partially offset by a favorable revenue mix driven by strong demand for the higher-configuration models of our Iridesse production press. 



While the rate of our first quarter 2019 revenue decline was greater than the rate we expect for the year as a whole (largely due to the impact of organizational changes implemented in the first quarter 2019), we expect such decline to improve each quarter sequentially on a year-over-year basis, resulting in an overall revenue decline of about 5% for the year as a whole, excluding an approximate 1.0-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Total Installs



Installs reflect new placement of devices only. Revenue associated with equipment installations (discussed below) may be reflected up-front in Equipment sales or over time either through rental income or as part of our Xerox Services revenues (which are both reported within our post sale revenues), depending on the terms and conditions of our agreements with customers. Installs include activity from Xerox Services and Xerox-branded products shipped to our XBS sales unit. Detail by product group (see Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions) is shown below.









•2% decrease in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven by lower activity from our EMEA organization, including low-end devices in developing market regions, partially offset by higher installs of ConnectKey devices through our indirect channels in the U.S.





•7% decrease in mid-range color installs reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices through our indirect channels in the U.S. and from our XBS sales unit. Higher installs from our EMEA organization provided a partial offset.



•19% decrease in mid-range black-and-white, reflecting lower installs of ConnectKey devices through our indirect channels in the U.S. and from our XBS sales unit. The decline also reflected market trends, partially offset by higher installs from our EMEA organization.





•14% decrease in high-end color installs, reflecting lower installs of our iGen and lower-end production systems including Versant systems, partially offset by strong demand for the higher-configuration models of our Iridesse production press and higher installs of our inkjet production systems.



•12% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends. 









Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions





•Americas, which includes our sales channels in the U.S. and Canada, as well as Mexico, and Central and South America.



•EMEA, which includes our sales channels in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India. 



•Other, primarily includes our OEM business, as well as sales to and royalties from Fuji Xerox, and our licensing revenue. 





•“Entry”, which includes A4 devices and desktop printers. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $150 to $3,000.



•“Mid-Range”, which includes A3 Office and Light Production devices that generally serve workgroup environments in mid to large enterprises. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $2,000 to $75,000+.



•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises. Prices for these systems can range from approximately $30,000 to $1,000,000+.



•Xerox Services, formerly known as Managed Document Services (MDS), which includes solutions and services that span from managing print to automating processes to managing content. Our primary offerings are Intelligent Workplace Services (IWS), which is our rebranded Managed Print Services, as well as Digital and Cloud Print Services (including centralized print services). Xerox Services also includes Communication and Marketing Solutions that were previously excluded from our former MDS definition. 







Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Costs, Expenses and Other Income 



Summary of Key Financial Ratios











Pre-tax Income Margin



First quarter 2019 pre-tax income margin of 3.8% decreased 1.7-percentage points as compared to first quarter 2018. The decrease was driven by higher Restructuring and related costs partially offset by lower Transaction related costs as well lower operating expenses (primarily reflecting the net benefit from our Project Own It transformation actions) that offset the impact of lower revenues.





First quarter 2019 adjusted1 operating margin of 11.3% increased 1.4-percentage points as compared to first quarter 2018 primarily reflecting the impact of SAG reductions and cost productivity associated with our Project Own It transformation actions, which more than offset the pace of revenue decline and an approximate 0.3-percentage point unfavorable impact from transaction currency. 







Gross Margin



First quarter 2019 gross margin of 40.3% increased 0.5-percentage points as compared to first quarter 2018, reflecting higher equipment margin partially offset by lower post sale margin. 



First quarter 2019 equipment gross margin of 35.7% increased 3.1-percentage points as compared to first quarter 2018, reflecting the mix benefit from lower OEM sales (which carry a negative upfront margin) as well as savings from our Project Own It cost productivity initiatives.



First quarter 2019 post sale gross margin of 41.5% decreased 0.2-percentage points as compared to first quarter 2018, driven by a 0.6-percentage point unfavorable impact related to a prior year benefit from a change in estimate for consumables usage by customers. Excluding this item, post sale margin would have increased, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions that offset the impact of lower revenues. 



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 











Selling, Administrative and General Expenses (SAG)



SAG as a percentage of revenue of 24.8% decreased 1.0-percentage point as compared to first quarter 2018, primarily reflecting the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our Project Own It transformation actions. 



SAG of $548 million was $80 million lower than first quarter 2018, reflecting productivity and restructuring savings associated with our Project Own It transformation actions as well as favorable impacts of approximately $13 million from translation currency and $9 million from a prior year accelerated depreciation charge. Bad debt expense of $13 million was flat as compared to first quarter 2018 and on a trailing twelve month basis (TTM) remained at less than one percent of total receivables.



Restructuring and Related Costs

























First quarter 2018 restructuring and related costs of $28 million included $24 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 400 employees worldwide and $12 million of lease cancellation charges 



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



reflecting continued optimization of our operating locations. These costs were partially offset by $8 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives. First quarter 2018 actions impacted several functional areas, with approximately 55% focused on gross margin improvements and approximately 45% on SAG reductions. 



The restructuring reserve balance as of March 31, 2019 for all programs was $80 million, of which $74 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months.



Refer to Note 11 - Restructuring Programs in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs.



Transaction and Related Costs, Net



There were no Transaction and related costs, net recognized during the first quarter 2019 as compared to $38 million during first quarter 2018. We continue to pursue additional recoveries from insurance carriers and other parties for costs and expenses related to the terminated Fuji transaction and related shareholder litigation and therefore additional recoveries and adjustments may be recorded in future periods, when finalized. 



Amortization of Intangible Assets



Amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $15 million increased by $3 million as compared to first quarter 2018. The increase primarily reflected the accelerated write-off of trade names associated with our realignment and consolidation of certain XBS sales units as part of Project Own It transformation actions.



Worldwide Employment



Worldwide employment was approximately 30,900 as of March 31, 2019 and decreased by approximately 1,500 from December 31, 2018. The reduction resulted from net attrition (attrition net of gross hires), of which a large portion is not expected to be backfilled, as well as the impact of organizational changes.



Other Expenses, Net





Non-Financing Interest Expense



Non-financing interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $27 million was $2 million lower than first quarter 2018. When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $4 million from first quarter 2018 primarily due to a lower debt balance.



Refer to Note 12 - Debt in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the interest expense.



Non-Service Retirement-Related Costs



Non-service retirement-related costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $12 million lower than first quarter 2018, primarily driven by the favorable impact of a 2018 amendment to our U.S. Retiree Health Plan partially offset by higher losses from pension settlements in the U.S.



Refer to Note 15 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding non-service retirement-related costs.



Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets



Gains on sales of businesses and assets for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $15 million lower than first quarter 2018, reflecting the prior year sale of non-core business assets.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Income Taxes







Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable.







Equity in Net Income (Loss) of Unconsolidated Affiliates





Equity in net income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox Net income (loss). For the three months ended March 31, 2019, equity income increased $113 million as compared to the first quarter 2018, primarily reflecting $67 million of lower year-over-year charges related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other changes as well as an approximate $28 million charge related to an out-of-period charge at Fuji Xerox in the prior year. The increase also reflects savings from restructuring. 



Refer to Note 10 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our Investment in Fuji Xerox as well as the prior period out-of-period adjustment.



Net Income



First quarter 2019 Net income attributable to Xerox was $133 million, or $0.55 per diluted share. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox was $219 million, or $0.91 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets and non-service retirement-related costs, as well as other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.



First quarter 2018 Net income attributable to Xerox was $23 million, or $0.08 per diluted share. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income attributable to Xerox was $178 million, or $0.68 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs.



Refer to Note 19 - Earnings per Share in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share.







Other Comprehensive Income





Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



by our share of the negative impacts from changes in Fuji Xerox's benefit plans; and iii) $17 million of net unrealized gains on derivatives. 



Refer to Note 18 - Other Comprehensive Income in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for the components of Other Comprehensive Income, Note 13 - Financial Instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding unrealized gains, net, and Note 15 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding net changes in our defined benefit plans.



Capital Resources and Liquidity



As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $786 million and $1,148 million, respectively. There were no borrowings under our Credit Facility at March 31, 2019 or December 31, 2018, respectively. The decrease in total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash primarily reflect the repayment of $406 million of maturing Senior Notes in first quarter 2019.



We continue to expect operating cash flows from continuing operations to be between $1,150 million and $1,250 million in 2019. Additionally, we continue to expect capital expenditures of approximately $150 million and dividend payments to shareholders of approximately $250 million. We have increased our full year 2019 expected share repurchases to be at least $600 million, from our original expectation of at least $300 million. The incremental repurchases will be weighted to the latter half of 2019. 



Cash Flow Analysis







Cash Flows from Operating Activities





•$37 million increase primarily due to lower levels of non-equipment inventories.



•$29 million increase due to net insurance proceeds of $14 million in first quarter 2019 compared to payments of $15 million in prior year for Transaction and related costs, net.



•$26 million increase due to lower Equipment on operating leases.



•$23 million increase primarily related to the prior year settlements of foreign derivative contracts.



•$21 million increase from lower restructuring payments.



•$75 million decrease from the change in Accounts payable primarily related to lower inventory and other spending as well as the year-over-year timing of supplier and vendor payments.



•$41 million decrease from accrued compensation primarily related to the year-over-year timing of employee incentive compensation payments.



Cash Flows from Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities was $18 million in first quarter 2019. The $16 million change in cash was primarily due to the sale of non-core business assets in 2018.



Cash Flows from Financing Activities





•$365 million increase from net debt activity. 2019 reflects payments of $406 million on Senior Notes compared to prior year payments of $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $13 million of bridge facility costs.



•$103 million increase due to share repurchases.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Adoption of New Leasing Standard



On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (ASC Topic 842). This update, as well as additional amendments and targeted improvements issued in 2018 and early 2019, supersedes existing lease accounting guidance found under ASC 840, Leases (ASC 840) and requires the recognition of right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease obligations by lessees for those leases originally classified as operating leases under prior lease guidance.





•Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements



•Note 3 - Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Xerox as a Lessee



•Note 4 - Adoption of New Leasing Standard - Xerox as a Lessor 



Potential Customer Financing Transaction





Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash



Refer to Note 6 - Supplementary Financial Information in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash.



Debt and Customer Financing Activities











Finance Assets and Related Debt















Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 











Debt Activity 



Senior Notes Repayment



In first quarter 2019, we repaid approximately $406 million of maturing Senior Notes.



Sales of Accounts Receivable









Refer to Note 7 - Accounts Receivable, Net in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our accounts receivable sales arrangements.



Liquidity and Financial Flexibility



We manage our worldwide liquidity using internal cash management practices, which are subject to i) the statutes, regulations and practices of each of the local jurisdictions in which we operate, ii) the legal requirements of the agreements to which we are a party and iii) the policies and cooperation of the financial institutions we utilize to maintain and provide cash management services.







Treasury Stock



In first quarter 2019, we repurchased 3.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $103 million, including fees. Through April 30, 2019, we repurchased an additional 2.0 million in shares with an aggregate cost of $66 million, including fees, for a cumulative total of 5.3 million shares at a cost of $169 million, including fees. We have increased our full year 2019 expected share repurchases to be at least $600 million, from our original expectation of at least $300 million.



Refer to Note 16 - Shareholders' Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our share repurchase program.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Financial Risk Management





We are required to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet. As permitted, certain of these derivative contracts have been designated for hedge accounting treatment. Certain of our derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are effective as economic hedges. These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility. The level of volatility will vary with the type and amount of derivative hedges outstanding, as well as fluctuations in the currency and interest rate markets during the period. The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities.



By their nature, all derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market and credit risk. The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency exchange and interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. We do not believe there is significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments because these transactions are executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions. Further, our policy is to deal with counterparties having a minimum investment grade or better credit rating. Credit risk is managed through the continuous monitoring of exposures to such counterparties.



The current market events have not required us to materially modify or change our financial risk management strategies with respect to our exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risk. Refer to Note 13 – Financial Instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion and information on our financial risk management strategies.



Non-GAAP Financial Measures



We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, we have discussed our financial results using the non-GAAP measures described below. We believe these non-GAAP measures allow investors to better understand the trends in our business and to better understand and compare our results. Accordingly, we believe it is necessary to adjust several reported amounts, determined in accordance with GAAP, to exclude the effects of certain items as well as their related income tax effects.





These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.



Adjusted Earnings Measures



•Net income and Earnings per share (EPS)



•Effective tax rate







Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



costs. All of these costs can vary significantly in terms of amount and frequency based on the nature of the actions as well as the changing needs of the business. Accordingly, due to that significant variability, we will exclude these charges since we do not believe they provide meaningful insight into our current or past operating performance nor do we believe they are reflective of our expected future operating expenses as such charges are expected to yield future benefits and savings with respect to our operational performance. 













We believe the exclusion of these items allows investors to better understand and analyze the results for the period as compared to prior periods and expected future trends in our business.



Adjusted Operating Income and Margin



We calculate and utilize adjusted operating income and margin measures by adjusting our reported pre-tax income and margin amounts. In addition to the costs and expenses noted as adjustments for our Adjusted Earnings measures, adjusted operating income and margin also exclude the remaining amounts included in Other expenses, net, which are primarily non-financing interest expense and certain other non-operating costs and expenses. We exclude these amounts in order to evaluate our current and past operating performance and to better understand the expected future trends in our business.



Constant Currency (CC)



Refer to "Currency Impact" for a discussion of this measure and its use in our analysis of revenue growth. 



Summary



Management believes that all of these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period’s results against the corresponding prior period’s results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.



Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 





































Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



ITEM 2 — UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS





During the quarter ended March 31, 2019, Registrant issued the following securities in transactions that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Act”).







d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.

























Xerox 2019 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



