ITEM 2 — MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS





Throughout this document, references to “we,” “our,” the “company,” and “Xerox” refer to Xerox Corporation and its subsidiaries. References to “Xerox Corporation” refer to the stand-alone parent company and do not include its subsidiaries.



Currency Impact



To better understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as "constant currency", “currency impact” or “the impact from currency.” This impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. This impact is calculated for all countries where the functional currency is the local country currency. We do not hedge the translation effect of revenues or expenses denominated in currencies where the local currency is the functional currency. Management believes the constant currency measure provides investors an additional perspective on revenue trends. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates. The constant currency impact for signings growth is calculated on the basis of plan currency rates.



Overview



Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments



Refer to Note 19 - Contingencies and Litigation and Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this terminated transaction and related matters.



Fuji Xerox Adjustments





In 2018, in connection with the completion of the audits of Fuji Xerox’s fiscal year-end financial statements as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, as well as the review of Fuji Xerox’s unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, additional adjustments and misstatements were identified. These additional adjustments and misstatements were to the previously reported Net income of Fuji Xerox for the period from 2010 through 2017 and are incremental to the items identified by the IIC noted above. These incremental adjustments primarily relate to Fuji Xerox’s Asia Pacific subsidiaries and involve improper revenue recognition, including revenue associated with leasing transactions, additional provisions for bad debt allowances and other asset impairments. In certain instances, some of the adjustments related to inappropriate accounting and reporting practices in the Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific subsidiaries and are further evidence of inadequate management oversight and an insufficient entity level monitoring system for financial statements of subsidiaries beyond what was previously identified by the IIC. Fuji Xerox is committed to implementing additional measures to remediate these newly identified issues. 



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 





Refer to Note 9 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Third Quarter 2018 Review



Total revenue of $2.35 billion for third quarter 2018 declined 5.8% from third quarter 2017 and included a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. Post sale revenue, which primarily reflects contracted services, equipment maintenance, supplies and financing, was $1.84 billion and represented 78% of total revenue. Post sale revenue declined 6.4% from third quarter 2017 and included a 1.2-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. The decline in post sale revenue primarily reflected the continuing lower page volume trends, an ongoing competitive price environment, a lower population of devices and lower supplies revenue. The lower population of devices is partly due to the loss of market share for multiple quarters leading up to the ConnectKey launch. These declines were partially offset by higher revenues from our partner print services offering and higher paper sales in developing markets. Total equipment revenue of $511 million decreased 3.8%, including a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency. The decline of total equipment revenue primarily reflected the impact of lower high-end sales and price declines of approximately 5%. These declines were partially offset by higher sales of our ConnectKey devices and demand for our recently launched Iridesse production press and higher sales through our Enterprise channel in the U.S. 



Total revenue of $7.30 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 declined 2.9% from the prior year period and included a 1.5-percentage point favorable impact from currency. Post sale revenue of $5.73 billion, which represented 78% of total revenue, declined 3.2% and included a 1.6-percentage point favorable impact from currency. The decline in post sale revenue primarily reflected continuing lower page volume trends, an ongoing competitive price environment, a lower population of devices, as well as the higher mix of installs of lower usage devices. These declines were partially offset by higher revenues from our Global Imaging business as well as higher paper sales. Total equipment revenue of $1.57 billion declined 1.8% including a 1.3-percentage point favorable impact from currency. The decline of total equipment revenue reflected the impact of lower OEM sales, lower revenue from our iGen and high-end black-and white systems and price declines of approximately 5%. These declines were partially offset by higher sales of our ConnectKey devices and higher revenues from our Global Imaging business and developing markets.







The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the respective prior year periods was primarily due to lower revenues and higher Income tax expense, which included an additional charge of $95 million in third quarter 2018 related to the impact of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"). These impacts were partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements and lower non-service retirement-related costs. The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was also partially offset by lower Transaction and related costs, net, primarily due to recoveries during third quarter 2018. The decrease in Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by Transaction and related costs, net and lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included our share of a significant restructuring charge recorded by Fuji Xerox in the first quarter of 2018. 



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the respective prior year periods was primarily related to lower revenues and higher income tax expense, partially offset by the continued benefits of cost savings and productivity improvements. The decrease in adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was partially offset by higher Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, while adjusted1 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was negatively impacted by lower Equity in net income from unconsolidated affiliates, which included an out-of-period adjustment recorded during the first quarter of 2018.



Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by a potential increase in the cost of our products as a result of new or incremental trade protection measures such as, increased import tariffs, import or export restrictions and requirements and the revocation or material modification of trade agreements. We are currently evaluating the impact of potentially new import tariffs on our products, which could significantly increase their cost. We are continuing to monitor developments in this area and will make efforts to mitigate the impact to the extent possible. 



Operating cash flow provided by continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $725 million, as compared to a use of cash of $30 million for the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to the prior year voluntary contributions of $500 million to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans and the reclassification of $170 million of collections of deferred proceeds and beneficial interests from the sale of receivables to investing cash flows as a result of an accounting change in the prior year (refer to Note 3 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). Operating cash flows also increased due to improved working capital2 as well as lower other pension contributions. 



Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $40 million and included capital expenditures of $73 million, which were partially offset by proceeds of $32 million from the sale of non-core business assets. Cash used in financing activities was $815 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 reflecting $284 million for share repurchases, payments of $265 million on Senior Notes, $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation, $19 million of bridge facility costs and dividend payments of $204 million.









Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Financial Review



Revenues





CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.













•Services, maintenance and rentals revenue includes rental and maintenance revenue (including bundled supplies) as well as the post sale component of the document services revenue from our Managed Document Services (MDS) offerings, and revenues from our Communication and Marketing Solutions (CMS). 



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 







Equipment sales revenue







CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.







Equipment sales revenue decreased 3.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to third quarter 2017, with a 1.1-percentage point unfavorable impact from currency, while equipment sales revenue decreased 1.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year period, with a 1.3-percentage point favorable impact from currency. Both periods were impacted by price declines of approximately 5% (which were in-line with our historic declines). For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the decline at constant currency1 included a 4.5-percentage point and a 3.4-percentage point impact, respectively, from lower OEM equipment sales.



•Entry - For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the increase in both periods, compared to their respective prior year periods, reflected higher sales of our ConnectKey devices in developing markets and U.S. indirect channels.



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



•Mid-range - For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the increase in both periods, compared to their respective prior year periods, reflected higher sales through our Enterprise channel in the U.S., as well as higher sales of lower-end devices in developing markets. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the increase was partially offset by lower revenues from indirect channels and from our Global Imaging business, while for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the increase was also attributed to higher sales from our Global Imaging business. 



•High-end - For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the decrease primarily reflected lower revenues from iGen in the U.S. along with lower revenues from black-and-white systems consistent with market decline trends. These declines were only partially mitigated by demand for the recently launched Iridesse production press. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the decrease was also attributed to lower installs of the Versant systems (partially as a result of lapping the prior year launch).



Total Installs









•8% decrease in color multifunction devices, reflecting lower sales through our U.S. channels.



•21% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven largely by higher activity from low-end devices in developing markets as well as higher sales of our ConnectKey devices through indirect channels in the U.S. and Europe. 





•8% increase in mid-range color installs reflecting higher demand for our ConnectKey products from our U.S. Enterprise channel (primarily from large and public sector accounts) as well as higher sales of lower-end A3 devices in developing markets.



•19% increase in mid-range black-and-white, reflecting demand for recently launched products across all geographies.





•17% decrease in high-end color installs, as demand for our new Iridesse production press was offset by lower installs of iGen and lower-end production systems. 



•3% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends partially offset by favorable impact from our customers' technology refresh cycles in the U.S. 







•5% increase in color multifunction devices, reflecting higher activity for our ConnectKey products in our Global Imaging business and our developing markets.



•20% increase in black-and-white multifunction devices, driven largely by higher activity from low-end devices in developing markets as well as higher sales of our ConnectKey devices through U.S. and Europe's indirect channels. 





•18% increase in mid-range color installs, reflecting higher demand from our ConnectKey devices across large enterprise and indirect channels, as well as higher sales of lower-end A3 devices in developing markets.



•16% increase in mid-range black-and-white, reflecting higher demand for our ConnectKey devices in our indirect U.S. channels and developing markets.





•7% decrease in high-end color systems, as demand for our new Iridesse production press and cut-sheet inkjet products was offset by lower installs of iGen and lower-end production systems. 



•10% decrease in high-end black-and-white systems reflecting market trends, partially offset by increased demand in our indirect U.S. channels and our developing markets. 



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Signings









CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.



Signings for the three months ended September 30, 2018 decreased 2.1% from third quarter 2017, including a 0.7-percentage point favorable impact from currency, and signings for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 decreased 8.1% from the prior year period, including a 1.0-percentage point favorable impact from currency. The decrease in both periods reflected a lower renewal rate as a result of ongoing competitive pressure in the market. On a trailing twelve month (TTM) basis, signings decreased 6.5% from the comparable prior year period, with a 1.1-percentage point favorable impact from currency. 



New business TCV for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased 15.7% from third quarter 2017, led by activity in Europe and included a 0.7-percentage point favorable impact from currency. New business TCV for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased 5.0% from the prior year period, with a 1.0-percentage point favorable impact from currency. On a TTM basis, new business increased 2.2% at constant currency1.



Renewal Rate



Renewal rate is defined as the annual recurring revenue (ARR) on contracts that are renewed during the period as a percentage of ARR on all contracts for which a renewal decision was made during the period. Contract renewal rate for the third quarter of 2018 was 79%, compared to our full year 2017 renewal rate of 84%. 





CC - See "Currency Impact" section for a description of Constant Currency.





Geographic Sales Channels and Product and Offerings Definitions





•North America, which includes our sales channels in the U.S. and Canada.



•International, which includes our sales channels in Europe, Eurasia, Latin America, Middle East, Africa and India. 



•Other primarily includes our OEM business, as well as sales to and royalties from Fuji Xerox, and our licensing revenue. 





•“Entry”, which includes A4 devices and desktop printers. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $150 to $3,000.



•“Mid-Range”, which includes A3 Office and Light Production devices that generally serve workgroup environments in mid to large enterprises. Prices in this product group can range from approximately $2,000 to $75,000+.



•“High-End”, which includes production printing and publishing systems that generally serve the graphic communications marketplace and large enterprises. Prices for these systems can range from approximately $30,000 to $1,000,000+.



•Managed Document Services (MDS) revenue, which includes solutions and services that span from managing print to automating processes to managing content. Our primary offerings within MDS are Managed Print Services (including from Global Imaging Systems), as well as workflow automation services, and Centralized Print Services and Solutions (CPS). MDS excludes Communications and Marketing Solutions (CMS).









Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Costs, Expenses and Other Income 



Summary of Key Financial Ratios











Pre-tax Income Margin



Third quarter 2018 pre-tax income margin of 8.2% increased 1.5-percentage points as compared to third quarter 2017. The increase was primarily driven by lower Transaction and related costs, net as well as lower Restructuring and related costs and benefits from our business transformation actions which outpaced the revenue declines.



Pre-tax income margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of 6.3% increased 1.7-percentage points as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by lower Restructuring and related costs and benefits from our business transformation actions as well as lower Other expenses, net, offset partially by revenue declines and Transaction and related costs, net. 





Third quarter 2018 adjusted1 operating margin of 13.1% increased 1.0-percentage points as compared to third quarter 2017, including a 0.4-percentage point favorable impact from transaction currency. The increase primarily reflects higher equity income and SAG savings and cost productivity associated with our business transformation actions which more than offset the pace of revenue decline.



Adjusted1 operating margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of 11.8% decreased 0.3-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, including a 0.4-percentage point unfavorable impact within SAG expenses primarily related to the exit of a real estate facility (0.3-percentage point) and the cancellation of certain IT projects (0.1-percentage point). The decline is also associated with lower revenues and equity income which more than offset cost productivity and savings associated with our business transformation actions. Adjusted1 operating margin includes favorable transaction currency of 0.6-percentage points.







Gross Margin



Third quarter 2018 gross margin of 40.1% was flat compared to third quarter 2017, including a 0.4-percentage point favorable impact from transaction currency and also reflecting higher equipment margin partially offset by lower post sale margin and a less profitable mix of our revenue streams.



Gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of 39.9% decreased 0.3-percentage points as compared to the prior year period reflecting lower post sale margin, a less profitable mix of revenues and the impact of pricing, partially offset by cost productivity and savings associated with our business transformation actions. Gross margin includes favorable impact from transaction currency of 0.5-percentage points.



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Third quarter 2018 equipment gross margin of 34.6% increased 5.1-percentage points as compared to third quarter 2017, reflecting the benefit from lower OEM sales (which carry a negative upfront margin) and favorable transaction currency as well as savings from cost productivity initiatives.



Equipment gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of 32.9% increased 3.3-percentage points as compared to the prior year period, reflecting benefits from lower OEM sales, favorable transaction currency as well as savings from cost productivity initiatives, partially offset by the impact of pricing and a less profitable mix of revenues.



Third quarter 2018 post sale gross margin of 41.7% decreased 1.2-percentage points as compared to third quarter 2017 reflecting lower revenues and an unfavorable mix of lower supplies, partially offset by productivity and restructuring savings.



Post sale gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of 41.9% decreased 1.1-percentage points as compared to the prior year period reflecting lower revenues and the impact of pricing, partially offset by productivity and restructuring savings and modestly favorable transaction currency.















Selling, Administrative and General Expenses (SAG)



SAG as a percentage of revenue of 24.8% decreased 0.4-percentage points compared to third quarter 2017, reflecting primarily the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our business transformation actions. 



SAG of $583 million was $47 million lower than third quarter 2017, including an approximate $5 million favorable impact from currency. The reduction reflected primarily productivity and restructuring savings associated with our business transformation actions, which were partially offset by $5 million of charges related to the cancellation of certain IT projects as we continue to evaluate the returns on our IT investment. Bad debt expense of $10 million was $2 million higher than third quarter 2017.



SAG as a percentage of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of 25.1% was flat as compared to the prior year period, reflecting primarily the benefit from productivity and restructuring associated with our business transformation actions. SAG as a percentage of revenue includes a 0.4-percentage point unfavorable impact from the exit of a real estate facility and the cancellation of certain IT projects.



SAG of $1,835 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $55 million lower than the prior year period, including an approximate $24 million unfavorable impact from currency. The reduction reflected primarily productivity and restructuring savings associated with our business transformation actions. These improvements were partially offset by $34 million of charges related to the accelerated depreciation from the early termination of a capital lease associated with a surplus facility ($22 million) and the cancellation of certain IT projects ($12 million). Bad debt expense of $35 million increased $5 million compared to the prior year period and on a trailing twelve month basis (TTM) remained at less than one percent of receivables.



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Restructuring and Related Costs





Restructuring and related costs were $91 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and included $104 million of severance costs related to headcount of approximately 1,850 employees worldwide and $13 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $26 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives.



Third quarter 2017 Restructuring and related costs of $35 million included net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $34 million as well as $1 million of additional costs primarily related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program. Third quarter 2017 net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $34 million included $39 million of severance costs related to headcount of approximately 600 employees worldwide. These costs were partially offset by $5 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives. The third quarter 2017 actions impacted several functional areas, with approximately 80% focused on SAG reductions and approximately 20% focused on gross margin improvements. 



Restructuring and related costs were $192 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and included net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $174 million as well as $18 million of additional costs primarily related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program. Net restructuring and asset impairment charges for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 of $174 million included $196 million of severance costs related to headcount of approximately 2,100 employees worldwide and $3 million of lease cancellation costs partially offset by $25 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives, which included a $5 million favorable adjustment on the early termination of the lease for the corporate airplane.



The restructuring reserve balance as of September 30, 2018 for all programs was $70 million, of which $67 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months. 



Refer to Note 10 - Restructuring Programs in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs.



Transaction and Related Costs, Net





•Costs related to the proposed combination transaction with Fuji Xerox, which was terminated in May 2018, primarily for third-party accounting, legal, consulting and other similar types of services. 



•Costs related to the settlement agreement reached with certain shareholders in the second quarter of 2018 as well as third-party legal and other related costs associated with on-going litigation resulting from the terminated combination transaction and other related shareholder actions. 



•$19 million of costs related to the commitment for a $2.5 billion unsecured bridge loan facility, which was terminated concurrent with the termination of the Fuji Xerox combination transaction.



•Recoveries of approximately $45 million, which included insurance recoveries for litigation and related settlement costs of approximately $30 million and a settlement refund from a financial adviser, associated with the terminated combination transaction, for approximately $13 million. We continue to pursue additional recoveries from insurance carriers and other parties for costs and expenses related to the terminated transaction and shareholder litigation and therefore additional recoveries and adjustments may be recorded in future periods, when finalized. 



Amortization of Intangible Assets



Amortization of intangible assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $36 million was $5 million lower compared to the prior year period. 



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Worldwide Employment



Worldwide employment was approximately 33,200 as of September 30, 2018 and decreased by approximately 2,100 from December 31, 2017, largely driven by our business transformation. Approximately half of the reduction was associated with restructuring actions, while the remainder resulted from net attrition (attrition net of gross hires), of which a large portion is not expected to be backfilled.



Other Expenses, Net





Non-Financing Interest Expense



Non-financing interest expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $28 million and was $1 million lower than third quarter of 2017. When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $1 million from third quarter of 2017 due to a lower debt balance, partially offset by higher average interest rates.



Non-financing interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $84 million and was $5 million lower as compared to the prior year period. When combined with financing interest expense (Cost of financing), total interest expense decreased by $4 million from the prior year comparable period primarily due to a lower debt balance reflecting debt repayments of approximately $1.3 billion in the first quarter 2017 partially offset by $1.0 billion of new debt issued in the third quarter 2017 to fund, among other things, a $500 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans, partially offset by higher average interest rates.



Non-Service Retirement-Related Costs



Non-service retirement-related costs decreased $2 million and $46 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the prior year periods. Both period decreases were primarily driven by the favorable impact of higher pension contributions and asset returns in the prior year, with the decrease in third quarter 2018 partially offset by higher losses from pension settlements in the U.S.



Gains on Sales of Businesses and Assets



Gains on sales of businesses and assets decreased $10 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to third quarter 2017, reflecting primarily the prior year sale of a research facility in Grenoble, France (which primarily supported the discontinued BPO business). 



Gains on the sales of business and assets increased $21 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the prior year period, reflecting a higher level of sales of non-core business assets in 2018.



Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt



During the first quarter of 2017, we recorded a $13 million loss associated with the repayment of $300 million in Senior Notes.



Income Taxes





Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 









Our effective tax rate is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our effective tax rate will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events that may not be predictable. 







Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”)



On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) was enacted. The Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering the U.S. statutory corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and implementing a territorial tax system that includes a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries.



During the fourth quarter 2017, we recorded an estimated non-cash charge of $400 million reflecting our provisional estimated impact associated with the provisions of the Tax Act based on currently available information. Our estimated charge incorporated assumptions based on our current interpretation of the Tax Act as well as information available at that time and was subject to change, possibly materially, as we completed our analysis and received additional clarification and implementation guidance. During third quarter 2018 we adjusted our provisional estimate by an additional charge of $95 million reflecting certain positions taken on our recently filed 2017 income tax return as well as consideration of additional guidance from the U.S. Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The adjustment includes changes to the determination of the one-time deemed repatriation tax as well as additional re-measurement of our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities to the lower enacted statutory tax rate. The total charge of $495 million related to the Tax Act remains a provisional estimate as we continue to evaluate and consider additional impacts including those related to interpretive guidance from the U.S. Treasury and IRS as well as filing positions we may take on our 2018 U.S. Tax Return. Accordingly, additional adjustments may be recorded, possibly material, in the fourth quarter 2018 as we finalize our estimate related to the Tax Act. Any adjustments to this provisional amount will be reported as a component of Income tax expense.



Effective January 1, 2018, we became subject to several provisions of the Tax Act including computations related to Global Intangible Low Taxed Income ("GILTI"), Foreign Derived Intangible Income ("FDII"), Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax ("BEAT"), and IRC Section 163(j) interest limitation (Interest Limitation). Our current estimate for the GILTI, FDII and Interest Limitation rules was determined to be immaterial, however we currently estimate that we are subject to BEAT. Accordingly, our third quarter and year to date 2018 effective tax rate includes the estimated impact for BEAT, which has also been incorporated into our estimated annual effective tax for 2018. Similar to the provisional charge recorded in the fourth quarter 2017 associated with the enactment of the Tax Act, the estimates for these additional provisions of the Tax Act were made based on our current interpretation of the Tax Act as well as currently available information and may change, as we complete our analysis and receive additional clarification and implementation guidance. Changes in interpretations and assumptions as well as actions we may take as a result of the Tax Act may also impact these estimates.



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Equity in Net Income (Loss) of Unconsolidated Affiliates





Equity in net income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates primarily reflects our 25% share of Fuji Xerox Net income (loss). For the three months ended September 30, 2018, equity income increased $13 million, while equity income decreased $96 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, as compared to the prior year periods. Equity income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 reflected savings from restructuring as well as lower bad debt provisions, while the equity loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included an approximate $28 million charge related to the out-of-period adjustments described in Note 9 - Investments in Affiliates, at Equity, in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and in the "Fuji Xerox Adjustments" section above.



Equity in net income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 included $1 million and $81 million, respectively, of higher year-over-year charges related to our share of Fuji Xerox after-tax restructuring and other charges. Other charges include costs associated with the terminated combination transaction discussed in Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



Net Income from Continuing Operations



Third quarter 2018 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $89 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, which included an estimated non-cash charge of $95 million or $0.37 per diluted share associated with the Tax Act. See the "Income Taxes" section for further discussion. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $222 million, or $0.85 per diluted share. Third quarter 2018 adjustments to Net income include Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.



Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $224 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, which included an estimated non-cash charge of $95 million or $0.37 per diluted share associated with the Tax Act. See the "Income Taxes" section for further discussion. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $613 million, or $2.33 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets, Transaction and related costs, net as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.



Third quarter 2017 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $176 million, or $0.67 per diluted share. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $234 million, or $0.89 per diluted share. Third quarter 2017 adjustments to Net income include Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets and non-service retirement-related costs as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.



Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $388 million, or $1.47 per diluted share. On an adjusted1 basis, Net income from continuing operations attributable to Xerox was $634 million, or $2.41 per diluted share and includes adjustments for Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets as well as non-service retirement-related costs and other discrete, unusual or infrequent items as described in our Non-GAAP Financial Measures section.



Refer to Note 18 - Earnings per Share in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share.







Discontinued Operations 



Discontinued operations relate to our Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) business, which was separated effective December 31, 2016. Refer to Note 4 - Divestitures in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Discontinued operations. 



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Net Income



Third quarter 2018 Net income attributable to Xerox was $89 million, or $0.34 per diluted share. Third quarter 2017 Net income attributable to Xerox was $179 million, or $0.68 per diluted share.



Net income attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $224 million, or $0.83 per diluted share. Net income attributable to Xerox for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $385 million, or $1.46 per diluted share.



Other Comprehensive Income







Refer to Note 12 - Financial Instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding unrealized (losses) gains, net, and Note 14 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding net changes in our defined benefit plans.



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Capital Resources and Liquidity



As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $1,218 million and $1,368 million, respectively. There were no borrowings under our Credit Facility or Commercial Paper Program at September 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017, respectively. 



We have narrowed our full year guidance range for 2018 operating cash flows from continuing operations to be between $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion, from our original guidance of between $900 million and $1.1 billion, partly due to lower expected pension contributions. Additionally, we have lowered our full year 2018 capital expenditures expectation to be approximately $100 million, from our original expectation of $150 million. We continue to expect dividend payments to common shareholders to be approximately $260 million. 



Cash Flow Analysis







Cash Flows from Operating Activities





•$29 million increase in pre-tax income before Transaction and related costs, net, Depreciation and amortization, Net gain on sales of businesses and assets, Restructuring and asset impairment charges and Defined benefit pension cost.



•$606 million increase due to contributions of $635 million in third quarter 2017 to our domestic tax-qualified defined benefit plans, which includes an incremental voluntary contribution of $500 million.



•$211 million increase from accounts receivable primarily due to the timing of collections and lower revenue, as well as the prior year reclassification of $157 million of collections of deferred proceeds from the sales of accounts receivables to investing.



•$96 million increase from inventory due in part to the timing of the product launch in the prior year.



•$35 million increase from lower restructuring payments.



•$55 million decrease due to lower net run-off of finance receivables of $28 million and higher equipment on operating leases of $27 million.



•$40 million decrease from Accounts payable primarily related to the year-over-year timing of supplier and vendor payments.



•$41 million decrease due to net payments for transaction and related costs.



•$41 million decrease primarily related to the prior year settlements of foreign currency derivative contracts associated with intercompany borrowings.



•$31 million decrease in dividends received from equity investments primarily due to lower income from Fuji Xerox.



Cash Flows from Investing Activities





•$157 million decrease is primarily a result of the termination of certain accounts receivables sales arrangements in fourth quarter 2017.



•$20 million decrease due to the prior year sale of a research facility in Grenoble, France.



•$76 million increase due to no acquisitions in 2018.



•$30 million increase primarily from the sale of non-core business assets in 2018.



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Cash Flows from Financing Activities





•$284 million increase due to the resumption of share repurchases in 2018.



•$161 million increase resulting from the prior year final cash adjustment with Conduent.



•$30 million decrease from net debt activity. 2018 reflects payments of $265 million on Senior Notes, $25 million related to the termination of a capital lease obligation and $19 million of bridge facility costs. 2017 reflects proceeds of $1.0 billion on Senior Notes offset by payments of $1.0 billion on Senior Notes, net payments of $326 million on the tender and exchange of certain Senior Notes including transaction costs and deferred debt issuance costs of $11 million.



•$19 million decrease from common and preferred stock dividends.



Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash



Refer to Note 5 - Supplementary Financial Information in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash.



Debt and Customer Financing Activities











Finance Assets and Related Debt























Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



Debt Activity 



Bridge Facility 



Refer to Note 20 - Fuji Xerox Transaction and Recent Developments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the bridge facility that was terminated during the second quarter of 2018.



Sales of Accounts Receivable



During the fourth quarter of 2017, we terminated all accounts receivable sales arrangements in North America and all but one arrangement in Europe. 



Refer to Note 6 - Accounts Receivable, Net in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our accounts receivable sales arrangements.



Liquidity and Financial Flexibility



We manage our worldwide liquidity using internal cash management practices, which are subject to i) the statutes, regulations and practices of each of the local jurisdictions in which we operate, ii) the legal requirements of the agreements to which we are a party and iii) the policies and cooperation of the financial institutions we utilize to maintain and provide cash management services.







Treasury Stock



In July 2018, the Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program (exclusive of any commissions and other transaction fees and costs). This program replaced the $245 million of authority remaining under the Company's previously authorized share repurchase program. In third quarter 2018, the Company increased its expectation for share repurchases in 2018 from an original expectation of up to $500 million of shares to an updated expectation of up to $700 million of shares. 



In third quarter 2018, we repurchased 10.5 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $284 million, including fees. There were no share repurchases in the first or second quarter of 2018. Through October 31, 2018, we repurchased an additional 6.9 million in shares with an aggregate cost of $182 million, including fees, for a cumulative total of 17.4 million shares at a cost of $466 million, including fees.



Refer to Note 16 - Shareholders' Equity, in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our share repurchase program.



Financial Risk Management





Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 



management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes. The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities.



We are required to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet. As permitted, certain of these derivative contracts have been designated for hedge accounting treatment. Certain of our derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are effective as economic hedges. These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility. The level of volatility will vary with the type and amount of derivative hedges outstanding, as well as fluctuations in the currency and interest rate markets during the period. The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities.



By their nature, all derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market and credit risk. The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency exchange and interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. We do not believe there is significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments because these transactions are executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions. Further, our policy is to deal with counterparties having a minimum investment grade or better credit rating. Credit risk is managed through the continuous monitoring of exposures to such counterparties.



The current market events have not required us to materially modify or change our financial risk management strategies with respect to our exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risk. Refer to Note 12 – Financial Instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion and information on our financial risk management strategies.



Non-GAAP Financial Measures



We have reported our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, we have discussed our financial results using the non-GAAP measures described below. We believe these non-GAAP measures allow investors to better understand the trends in our business and to better understand and compare our results. Accordingly, we believe it is necessary to adjust several reported amounts, determined in accordance with GAAP, to exclude the effects of certain items as well as their related income tax effects.





These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.



Adjusted Earnings Measures



•Net income and Earnings per share (EPS)



•Effective tax rate











Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 











•2017 - Loss on early extinguishment of debt in the first quarter of 2017.



•2017 - A benefit from the remeasurement of a tax matter in the first quarter of 2017 that related to a previously adjusted item.





We believe the exclusion of these items allows investors to better understand and analyze the results for the period as compared to prior periods and expected future trends in our business.



Adjusted Operating Income and Margin





Constant Currency (CC)



Refer to "Currency Impact" for a discussion of this measure and its use in our analysis of revenue growth. 



Summary



Management believes that all of these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current period’s results against the corresponding prior period’s results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Company’s reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.





Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 





























Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 















ITEM 2 — UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS





During the quarter ended September 30, 2018, Registrant issued the following securities in transactions that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Act”).







d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.







d.Exemption from registration under the Act was claimed based upon Section 4(2) as a sale by an issuer not involving a public offering.



Xerox 2018 Form 10-Q





Table of Contents 















In July 2018, Registrant’s Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase program. This program replaces the $245 million of authority remaining under Registrant’s previously authorized share repurchase program.













