Interest Rate Risk.
As of March 30, 2018, we had no available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.
The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of March 30, 2018.
We currently do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio.
The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio and debt obligations as of March 30, 2018.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.
From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments and anticipated foreign currency denominated expenditures.
At this time, we have not identified any material exposure associated with the potential changes related to the British vote to exit the European Union.
We hedge portions of our foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions with foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings will be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates.
The changes in fair value of these hedges are recognized in earnings in the same period as the gains and losses from the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities.
These foreign currency forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedging instruments under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging.
We had no outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts as of March 30, 2018.
We did not have any material net gains (losses) recognized in Cost of revenue for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness or discontinued cash flow hedges during the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018.
Other Market Risks.
We have exposure to counterparty credit downgrades in the form of credit risk related to our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and our fixed income portfolio.
We monitor and limit our credit exposure for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts by performing ongoing credit evaluations.
We also manage the notional amount of contracts entered into with any one counterparty, and we maintain limits on maximum tenor of contracts based on the credit rating of the financial institution.
Additionally, the investment portfolio is diversified and structured to minimize credit risk.
In fiscal year 2014, we entered into a Total Return Swap (“TRS”) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the SDCP liabilities.
We pay a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS.
changes in the value of the investment options made by employees.
Derivative Financial Instruments” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
None.
