The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended September 28, 2018, June 29, 2018 and September 29, 2017, referred to herein as the “September 2018 quarter,” the “June 2018 quarter,” and the “September 2017 quarter,” respectively. We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. The September 2018, June 2018 and September 2017 quarters were all 13 weeks.  
You should read this discussion in conjunction with financial information and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries. References to “$” are to United States dollars.  
cyber-attacks or other data breaches that disrupt the Company’s operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information and cause reputational harm, and the cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities associated with the Company’s infrastructure updates to its information technology systems.  
Our Company. Overview of our business.  
Results of Operations. An analysis of our financial results comparing the September 2018 quarter to the June 2018 quarter and the September 2017 quarter.  
Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discussion of our financial condition including the credit quality of our investment portfolio and potential sources of liquidity.  
We are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and storage subsystems.  
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data, and most SSDs use NAND flash memory.  
Our HDD products are designed for mission critical and nearline applications in enterprise servers and storage systems; edge compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and edge non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as portable external storage systems, surveillance systems, digital video recorders (“DVRs”), network-attached storage (“NAS”) and gaming consoles. Our SSD products mainly include serial attached SCSI (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory Express (“NVMe”) SSDs.  
Our enterprise data solutions (formerly referred to as the “cloud systems and solutions”) portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.  
During the September 2018 quarter, we shipped 99 exabytes of HDD storage capacity. We generated revenue of approximately $3.0 billion, gross margin of 31% and our operating cash flow was $587 million. We paid $181 million in dividends and repurchased 3 million of our ordinary shares for $150 million.  
Revenue in the September 2018 quarter increased by $156 million from the June 2018 quarter as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped driven primarily by higher seasonal demand for our client and consumer markets, partially offset by price erosion.  
Revenue in the September 2018 quarter increased by $359 million from the September 2017 quarter as a result of an increase in exabytes shipped driven primarily by higher demand for our enterprise and client markets, partially offset by price erosion.  
We maintain various sales programs such as channel rebates and price masking. Sales programs were approximately 11%, 12% and 11% of gross drive revenue for the September 2018 quarter, June 2018 quarter and September 2017 quarter, respectively. Adjustments to revenues due to under or over accruals for sales programs related to revenues reported in prior quarterly periods were less than 1% of quarterly gross revenue in all periods presented.  
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the September 2018 quarter decreased by approximately 100 basis points from the June 2018 quarter primarily due to a decline in prices for NAND flash memory and general price erosion. Compared to the September 2017 quarter, gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased by 300 basis points primarily driven by favorable product mix and improved factory utilization as a result of higher demand for our enterprise and client markets, partially offset by a decline in prices for NAND flash memory and general price erosion.  
In the September 2018 quarter, total warranty cost was 0.7% of revenue and included a favorable change in estimates of prior warranty accruals of 0.5% of revenue due to improvements in return rates on newer generation products. Warranty cost related to new shipments was 1.2%, 1.3% and 1.3% of revenue for the September 2018, June 2018 and September 2017 quarters, respectively.  
Product development expense. Product development expense for the September 2018 quarter remained relatively flat compared to the June 2018 quarter and the September 2017 quarter.  
Marketing and administrative expense. Marketing and administrative expense for the September 2018 quarter decreased by $25 million from the June 2018 quarter primarily due to a $13 million decrease in variable compensation and share-based compensation expenses, a $5 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods and a $7 million decrease in other general expenses due to related operational efficiencies.  
Compared to the September 2017 quarter, Marketing and administrative expense decreased by $30 million primarily due to a $13 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, a $9 million decrease in other general expenses due to related operational efficiencies and an $8 million decrease in variable compensation and share-based compensation expenses.  
Restructuring and other, net. Restructuring and other, net for the September 2018 quarter was comprised of charges primarily related to a voluntary early exit program.  
Restructuring and other, net for the June 2018 quarter included a gain of $24 million from the sale of certain properties previously classified as held for sale, offset by restructuring charges announced in prior periods.  
Restructuring and other, net for the September 2017 quarter was comprised of restructuring charges to reduce our global workforce by 600 employees.  
Compared to the September 2017 quarter, Other expense, net decreased by $32 million primarily due to a $16 million net increase in gains due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates and a $16 million increase in interest income on investment in a debt security.  
Our cash and cash equivalents increased from June 29, 2018 as a result of an increase in the net cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by net cash outflows for dividends paid to our shareholders of $181 million, capital expenditures of $177 million and repurchases of our ordinary shares of $150 million.  
an increase of $66 million in inventory, primarily due to an increase in units built.  
partially offset by $32 million in proceeds from the issuance of ordinary shares under employee stock plans.  
As of September 28, 2018, no borrowings had been drawn under the revolving credit facility or had been utilized for letters of credit issued under this credit facility. The line of credit is available for borrowings, subject to compliance with financial covenants and other customary conditions to borrowing.  
Our liquidity requirements are primarily to meet our working capital, product development and capital expenditure needs, to fund scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, and to fund our quarterly dividend and any future strategic investments. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend on our future cash flows, which are determined by future operating performance, and therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.  
For fiscal year 2019, we expect capital expenditures to remain below our long-term targeted range of 6% to 8% of revenue.  
From time to time we may repurchase any of our outstanding notes in open market or privately negotiated purchases or otherwise, or we may repurchase outstanding notes pursuant to the terms of the applicable indenture.  
Dividends declared in the September 2018 quarter of $180 million were subsequently paid on October 3, 2018. The Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.63 per share on November 2, 2018, which is payable on January 2, 2019 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 19, 2018.  
From time to time we may repurchase any of our outstanding ordinary shares through private, open market, tender offers broker-assisted purchases or other means. As of September 28, 2018, $0.7 billion remained available for repurchase under our existing repurchase authorization limit. All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. On October 29, 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $2.3 billion of our outstanding ordinary shares.  
All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.  
As of September 28, 2018, $0.7 billion remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit. There is no expiration date on this authorization. On October 29, 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $2.3 billion of our outstanding ordinary shares.  
Repurchase of shares including tax withholdings.  
