See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
The information as of June 30, 2017 was derived from the Company’s audited Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2017.  
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Its principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHD”) and storage subsystems.  
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory. In addition to HDDs and SSDs, SSHDs combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.  
The Company’s cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud. Its portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.  
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.  
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the Company’s fiscal year ending June 29, 2018. The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. Both the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017 consisted of 13 weeks and 39 weeks, respectively. Fiscal year 2018, which ends on June 29, 2018, and fiscal year 2017, which ended on June 30, 2017, are both comprised of 52 weeks. The fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2018, December 29, 2017, and March 31, 2017, are also referred to herein as the “March 2018 quarter”, the “December 2017 quarter”, and the “March 2017 quarter”, respectively.  
In May 2014, August 2015, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2014-09 (ASC Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, ASU 2015-14 (ASC Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Deferral of the Effective Date, ASU 2016-10 (ASC Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, ASU 2016-12 (ASC Topic 606) Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, and ASU 2016-20 (ASC Topic 606) Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, respectively. ASC Topic 606 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. It also requires entities to disclose both quantitative and qualitative information that enable financial statements users to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. This standard may be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented, or retrospectively with a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings in the year of adoption (“modified retrospective transition approach”). Based on its assessment, the Company plans to adopt the new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, utilizing the modified retrospective method of transition. While management has not yet completed its assessment of the impact of adopting this new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements, the Company expects the adoption of the new standard will result in the recognition of revenue generally upon shipment (sell-in basis) for sales of products to certain direct retail customers and customers in certain indirect retail channels which are currently being recognized on a sell-through basis. Accordingly, the Company will need to estimate variable consideration (e.g. rebates) related to customer incentives on these arrangements. These changes are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases. This ASU amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize operating leases with a term greater than one year on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability, measured at the present value of the lease payments. The Company is required to adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.  
 2. Balance Sheet Information  
As of March 30, 2018, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of March 30, 2018.  
As of June 30, 2017, the Company had no material available-for-sale securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months. The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 30, 2017.  
$800 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 3.75% Senior Notes due November 2018 (the “2018 Notes”). The interest on the 2018 Notes is payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The issuer under the 2018 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2018 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company. During the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company repurchased $56 million and $206 million aggregate principal amount of the 2018 Notes, respectively, for cash at a premium to their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company recorded a loss of approximately $1 million and $3 million on repurchases during the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively, which is included in Other, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The remainder of the 2018 Notes are classified as Current portion of long-term debt on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at March 30, 2018.  
$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due June 2023 (the “2023 Notes”). The interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2023 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2023 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  
$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due March 2024 (the “2024 Notes”). The interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2024 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2024 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  
$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due January 2025 (the “2025 Notes”). The interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2025 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2025 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  
$700 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due June 2027 (the “2027 Notes”). The interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2027 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2027 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  
$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 5.75% Senior Notes due December 2034 (the “2034 Notes”). The interest on the 2034 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The issuer under the 2034 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2034 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by the Company.  
The Company recorded income tax provisions of $12 million and $231 million in the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively. The income tax provision for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 included approximately $2 million of net discrete tax benefit and approximately $195 million of net discrete expense, respectively. The discrete items for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 are primarily associated with the revaluation of U.S. deferred tax assets as a result of the enactment of the Act on December 22, 2017, partially offset by the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits associated with the expiration of certain statutes of limitation.  
The Company recorded an income tax provision of $18 million and $37 million in the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, respectively. The income tax provision for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017 included approximately $8 million of net discrete tax expense and approximately $3 million of net discrete tax expense, respectively. The discrete items are primarily associated with changes in valuation allowances offset by release of tax reserves due to the expiration of certain statutes of limitation and prior year tax adjustments.  
On October 6, 2015, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Dot Hill Systems Corp. (“Dot Hill”), a supplier of software and hardware storage systems. The Company paid $9.75 per share, or $674 million, in cash for the acquisition. The acquisition of Dot Hill further expands the Company’s OEM-focused cloud storage systems business and advances the Company’s strategic efforts.  
The recognized goodwill, which is not deductible for income tax purposes, is primarily attributable to cost synergies expected to arise after the acquisition and the benefits the Company expects to derive from enhanced market opportunities.  
Other intangible assets consist primarily of existing technology, customer relationships and trade names acquired in business combinations. Intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over the respective estimated useful lives of the assets. Amortization is charged to Operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  
 7. Restructuring and Exit Costs  
December 2017 Plan - On December 8, 2017, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the “December 2017 Plan”) to reduce its cost structure. The December 2017 Plan included reducing the Company’s global headcount by approximately 500 employees. The December 2017 Plan is expected to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2018.  
March 2017 Plan - On March 9, 2017, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the “March 2017 Plan”) in connection with the continued consolidation of its global footprint. The Company closed its design center in Korea, resulting in the reduction of the Company’s headcount by approximately 300 employees. The March 2017 Plan was largely completed by the end of fiscal year 2017.  
In addition, during fiscal year 2017, the Company committed to sell certain land and buildings primarily in Asia as part of the March 2017 and July 2016 plans, which accordingly met the criteria to be classified as assets held for sale and were reclassified to Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at that time. During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company sold certain of these properties, which were previously classified as assets held for sale and recognized a gain of approximately $1 million, which was included in Restructuring and other, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 9. Fair Value for additional information.  
The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and to a lesser extent, equity market risks relating to its ongoing business operations. From time to time, the Company enters into cash flow hedges in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts in order to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk on forecasted expenses denominated in foreign currencies. The Company’s accounting policies for these instruments are based on whether the instruments are classified as designated or non-designated hedging instruments. The Company records all derivatives in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. The changes in the fair value of the effective portions of designated cash flow hedges are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments and the ineffective portions of cash flow hedges are adjusted to fair value through earnings.  
As of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, the Company had no outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts.  
The Company is subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by its employees as part of its Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan—the Seagate Deferred Compensation Plan (the “SDCP”). In fiscal year 2014, the Company entered into a Total Return Swap (“TRS”) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the SDCP liabilities. The Company pays a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS. The TRS is designed to substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees. As of March 30, 2018, the notional investments underlying the TRS amounted to $113 million. The contract term of the TRS is through January 2019 and is settled on a monthly basis, therefore limiting counterparty performance risk. The Company did not designate the TRS as a hedge. Rather, the Company records all changes in the fair value of the TRS to earnings to offset the market value changes of the SDCP liabilities.  
 (a) The amount of gain (loss) recognized in income related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationships and the amount excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were less than $1 million for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, respectively.  
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.  
Level 3 — Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.  
The Company classifies items in Level 1 if the financial assets consist of securities for which quoted prices are available in an active market.  
 The Company’s derivative financial instruments are also classified within Level 2. The Company’s derivative financial instruments consist of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the TRS. The Company recognizes derivative financial instruments in its consolidated financial statements at fair value. The Company determines the fair value of these instruments by considering the estimated amount it would pay or receive to terminate these agreements at the reporting date.  
As of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, the Company had no Level 3 assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.  
For the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company determined that a certain equity investment accounted for under the cost method was other-than-temporarily impaired and recorded a charge of $3 million in order to write down the carrying amount of the investment to its fair value. For the nine months ended March 31, 2017, the Company recognized an impairment charge of $25 million on a strategic investment. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, the Company did not record any impairment charges. Since there was no active market for the equity securities of the investee, the Company estimated fair value of the investee by analyzing the underlying cash flows and future prospects of the investee. These amounts were recorded in Other, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.  
As of June 30, 2017, the Company had $77 million of held for sale land and buildings (collectively, the “properties”) primarily in Asia included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The respective properties to be sold met the criteria to be classified as held for sale during the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017. Depreciation related to the properties ceased as of the date these were determined to be held for sale. During the fiscal year 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges of $35 million in order to write down the carrying amount of such properties to their estimated fair values less costs to sell. The impairment charges were recorded in Operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. No additional impairment charges related to these properties were recorded during the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018. The fair values were measured with the assistance of third-party valuation models which used inputs such as comparable market data for similar land sale transactions adjusted for differences in comparable properties to derive the estimated fair value of the subject properties and the cost approach valuation techniques for buildings as part of the analysis. The fair value measurement was categorized as Level 3 as significant unobservable inputs were used in the valuation analysis. In the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company completed the sale of certain of these properties and recorded a gain of approximately $1 million, which was included in Restructuring and other, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of March 30, 2018, the Company had $36 million of properties that continued to be included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
The Company’s authorized share capital is $13,500 and consists of 1,250,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.00001, of which 287,026,396 shares were outstanding as of March 30, 2018, and 100,000,000 preferred shares, par value $0.00001, of which none were issued or outstanding as of March 30, 2018.  
Ordinary shares—Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company’s board of directors (the “Board of Directors”). Upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after required payments are made to holders of preferred shares, any remaining assets of the Company will be distributed ratably to holders of the preferred and ordinary shares. Holders of shares are entitled to one vote per share on all matters upon which the ordinary shares are entitled to vote, including the election of directors.  
Preferred shares—The Company may issue preferred shares in one or more series, up to the authorized amount, without shareholder approval. The Board of Directors is authorized to establish from time to time, the number of shares to be included in each series, and to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of the shares of each wholly unissued series and any of its qualifications, limitations or restrictions. The Board of Directors can also increase or decrease the number of shares of a series, but not below the number of shares of that series then outstanding, without any further vote or action by the shareholders.  
The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred shares with voting or conversion rights that could harm the voting power or other rights of the holders of the ordinary shares. The issuance of preferred shares, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could, among other things, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company and might harm the market price of its ordinary shares and the voting and other rights of the holders of ordinary shares.  
On April 22, 2015, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase $2.5 billion of its outstanding ordinary shares.  
All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.  
As of March 30, 2018, $0.9 billion remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit.  
 Cayman or (ii) Indemnitee’s conscious, intentional or willful failure to act honestly, lawfully and in good faith with a view to the best interests of Seagate-Cayman or the applicable subsidiary of Seagate-Cayman. In addition, the Revised Indemnification Agreement provides that Seagate-Cayman will advance expenses incurred by an Indemnitee in connection with enforcement of the Revised Indemnification Agreement or with the investigation, settlement or appeal of any action or proceeding against him or her as to which he or she could be indemnified.  
On July 3, 2010, pursuant to a corporate reorganization, the common shareholders of Seagate-Cayman became ordinary shareholders of Seagate Technology plc (the “Company”) and Seagate-Cayman became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, as described more fully in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on July 6, 2010 (the “Redomestication”). On July 27, 2010, in connection with the Redomestication, the Company, as sole shareholder of Seagate-Cayman, approved a form of deed of indemnity (the “Deed of Indemnity”), which provides for the indemnification by Seagate-Cayman of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, Seagate-Cayman or any subsidiary of the Company (each, a “Deed Indemnitee”), in addition to any of a Deed Indemnitee’s indemnification rights under the Company’s Articles of Association, applicable law or otherwise, with a similar scope to the Revised Indemnification Agreement. Seagate-Cayman entered into the Deed of Indemnity with certain Deed Indemnitees effective as of July 3, 2010 and continues to enter into the Deed of Indemnity with additional Deed Indemnitees from time to time.  
The nature of these indemnification obligations prevents the Company from making a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount it could be required to pay on behalf of its officers and directors. Historically, the Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations.  
 13. Earnings Per Share  
The anti-dilutive shares related to employee equity award plans that were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share were approximately 1 million for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, and approximately 1 million and 2 million for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, respectively.  
Enova Technology Corporation v. Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc., et al. On June 5, 2013, Enova Technology Corporation (“Enova”) filed a complaint against Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc. and Seagate Technology LLC in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,136,995 (the “‘995 patent”), “Cryptographic Device,” and U.S. Patent No. 7,900,057 (the “‘057 patent”), “Cryptographic Serial ATA Apparatus and Method.” The Company believes the claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this case. On April 27, 2015, the district court ordered a stay of the case, in view of proceedings regarding the ‘995 and ‘057 patents before the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (“PTAB”) of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. On September 2, 2015, PTAB issued its final written decision that claims 1-15 of the ‘995 patent are held unpatentable. On December 18, 2015, PTAB issued its final written decisions that claims 1-32 and 40-53 of the ‘057 patent are held unpatentable. On February 4, 2016, PTAB issued its final written decision that claims 33-39 of the ‘057 patent are held unpatentable. Enova appealed PTAB’s decisions on the ‘995 patent and the ‘057 patent to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On March 20, 2017, the court of appeals issued its judgment affirming PTAB’s decision on the ‘995 patent. On September 6, 2017, the court of appeals issued its judgment affirming PTAB’s decision on the ‘057 patent. On November 27, 2017, Enova filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court challenging the court of appeals’ decision on the ‘057 Patent. The Supreme Court denied the petition on April 30, 2018. The district court case remains stayed. In light of the Supreme Court’s denial of the petition, the Company does not expect to incur a loss in this matter.  
The Company’s operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of the Company’s operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities.  
The Company has established environmental management systems and continually updates its environmental policies and standard operating procedures for its operations worldwide. The Company believes that its operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. The Company budgets for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. If additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on the Company in the future, it could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures.  
Some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the “Superfund” law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. The Company has been identified as a potentially responsible party at several sites. At each of these sites, the Company has an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. The Company has fulfilled its responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time.  
Investment commitment to acquire interest in preferred stock. On September 28, 2017, the Company entered into an Equity Commitment Letter (“ECL”) with a consortium of investors led by Bain Capital Private Equity for the acquisition of Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”). The ECL contemplates that, upon the closing of the acquisition, the Company or one of its subsidiaries would purchase up to JPY 139.5 billion (approximately USD 1.31 billion based on an exchange rate as of March 30, 2018), of a newly issued non-convertible preferred stock of a newly formed company, K. K. Pangea, for the purpose of acquiring TMC. The closing of the acquisition is subject to regulatory approvals and other closing conditions.  
On May 1, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.63 per share, which will be payable on July 5, 2018 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on June 20, 2018.  
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 14. Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  
