The following is a discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations for our fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2017, September 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, referred to herein as the “December 2017 quarter,” the “September 2017 quarter,” and the “December 2016 quarter,” respectively. We operate and report financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. The December 2017, September 2017 and December 2016 quarters were all 13 weeks.  
You should read this discussion in conjunction with financial information and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Unless the context indicates otherwise, as used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “Seagate,” the “Company” and “our” refer to Seagate Technology plc, an Irish public limited company, and its subsidiaries. References to “$” are to United States dollars.  
   •   Our Company. Overview of our business.  
   •   Overview of the December 2017 Quarter. Highlights of events in the December 2017 quarter that impacted our financial position.  
   •   Results of Operations. An analysis of our financial results comparing the December 2017 quarter to the September 2017 quarter and the December 2016 quarter.  
   •   Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discussion of our financial condition including the credit quality of our investment portfolio and potential sources of liquidity.  
   •   Contractual Obligations and Commitments. Overview of contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments outstanding as of December 29, 2017.  
We are a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions. Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. In addition to HDDs, we produce a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSD”) and their related controllers, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHD”) and storage subsystems.  
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. Complementing existing data center storage architecture, solid-state storage devices use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data with most SSDs using NAND-based flash memory. In addition to HDDs and SSDs, SSHDs combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.  
Our cloud systems and solutions extend innovation from the device into the information infrastructure, onsite and in the cloud. Our portfolio includes modular original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) storage systems and scale-out storage servers.  
During the December 2017 quarter, we shipped 88 exabytes of HDD storage capacity, generating revenue of approximately $2.9 billion and gross margin of 30%. Our operating cash flow was $850 million. We repurchased 5 million of our ordinary shares for $195 million, paid $182 million in dividends, as well as paid $130 million for the repurchase of certain of our outstanding debt.  
Compared to the December 2016 quarter, revenue in the December 2017 quarter increased modestly primarily due to increase in exabytes shipped, offset by price erosion.  
Revenue for the six months ended December 2017 quarter decreased by $145 million from the six months ended December 2016 quarter as a result of price erosion, partially offset by an improved product mix.  
We maintain various sales programs such as channel rebates and price masking. Sales programs were approximately 12%, 11% and 11% of gross drive revenue for the December 2017 quarter, September 2017 quarter and December 2016 quarter, respectively. Adjustments to revenues due to under or over accruals for sales programs related to revenues reported in prior quarterly periods were less than 1% of quarterly gross revenue in all periods presented.  
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the December 2017 quarter increased by 200 basis points from the September 2017 quarter primarily driven by favorable product mix and improved absorption of factories due to higher demand for the Company’s high capacity HDD product portfolio, partially offset by price erosion.  
Compared to the corresponding three and six months ended December 2016 quarter, gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the three and six months ended December 2017 quarter decreased by 100 basis points in both periods, primarily driven by price erosion, partially offset by favorable product mix and improved factory utilization resulting from cost savings due to our workforce reductions and manufacturing consolidation activities.  
In the December 2017 quarter, total warranty cost was within the historical range of 1% to 1.5% of revenue and included a favorable change in estimates of prior warranty accruals of less than 0.2% of revenue. Warranty cost related to new shipments was 1.4%, 1.3%, and 1.2% of revenue for each of the December 2017, September 2017 and December 2016 quarters, respectively.  
Product development expense. Product development expense for the December 2017 quarter decreased by $13 million from the September 2017 quarter primarily due to a $4 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, a $13 million decrease due to related operational efficiencies, partially offset by an increase in variable compensation expense.  
Compared to corresponding six months ended December 2016 quarter, product development expense decreased by $107 million primarily due to a $47 million decrease in salaries and employee benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, a $36 million decrease due to related operational efficiencies and a $24 million decrease in variable compensation and share-based compensation expenses.  
Marketing and administrative expense. Marketing and administrative expense for the December 2017 quarter decreased by $3 million from the September 2017 quarter primarily due to a decrease in salaries and related benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, partially offset by an increase in variable compensation expense.  
Compared to the December 2016 quarter, Marketing and administrative expense decreased by $13 million, primarily due to a $9 million decrease in salaries and related benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods, and a $4 million decrease in variable compensation expense.  
Compared to corresponding six months ended December 2016 quarter, marketing and administrative expense decreased by $21 million primarily due to a $13 million decrease in salaries and related benefits as a result of the restructuring of our workforce in prior periods and a $8 million decrease in variable compensation expense.  
Restructuring and other, net. Restructuring and other, net for the three and six months ended December 2017 quarter was comprised of restructuring charges to reduce our global workforce by 500 and 1100 employees, respectively.  
Restructuring and other, net for the three and six months ended December 2016 quarter was primarily comprised of restructuring charges to reduce our global workforce by 6,500 employees. Each of these restructuring activities have reduced our workforce as we continue to consolidate our global footprint across Asia, EMEA and the Americas. See “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 7. Restructuring and Exit Costs” for more details.  
Our cash and cash equivalents increased from June 30, 2017 as a result of an increase in the net cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by net cash outflows for dividends paid to our shareholders, repurchase of our ordinary shares, capital expenditures, and repayments of long-term debt.  
   •   a decrease of $42 million in vendor receivables, primarily due to timing of receipt of vendor payments.  
   •   $35 million in proceeds from the issuance of ordinary shares under employee stock plans.  
As of December 29, 2017, no borrowings had been drawn under the revolving credit facility or had been utilized for letters of credit issued under this credit facility. The line of credit is available for borrowings, subject to compliance with financial covenants and other customary conditions to borrowing.  
Our liquidity requirements are primarily to meet our working capital, product development and capital expenditure needs, to fund scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, and to fund our quarterly dividend. Our ability to fund these requirements will depend on our future cash flows, which are determined by future operating performance, and therefore, subject to prevailing global macroeconomic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.  
For fiscal year 2018, we expect capital expenditures to be less than 5% of revenue.  
From time to time we may repurchase any of our outstanding notes in open market or privately negotiated purchases or otherwise, or may repurchase outstanding notes pursuant to the terms of the applicable indenture.  
Dividends declared in the December 2017 quarter of $179 million were subsequently paid on January 3, 2018. The Company’s Board of Directors announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.63 per share on January 29, 2018, which is payable on April 4, 2018 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 21, 2018.  
From time to time we may repurchase any of our outstanding ordinary shares through private, open market, or broker-assisted purchases. As of December 29, 2017, $0.9 billion remained available for repurchase under our existing repurchase authorization limit. All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.  
 (1) Includes total future minimum rent expense under non-cancelable leases for both occupied and vacated facilities (rent expense is shown net of sublease income).  
 (2) Purchase obligations are defined as contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services, which are enforceable and legally binding on us, and that specify all significant terms.  
On September 28, 2017, we entered into an Equity Commitment Letter (“ECL”) with a consortium of investors led by Bain Capital Private Equity for the acquisition of Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”). The ECL contemplates that, upon the closing of the acquisition, we would purchase up to JPY 139.5 billion (approximately USD 1.24 billion based on an exchange rate as of December 29, 2017), of a newly issued non-convertible preferred equity security of a newly formed company, K. K. Pangea, for the purpose of acquiring TMC. The closing of the acquisition is subject to regulatory approvals and other closing conditions.  
All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.  
On April 22, 2015, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase $2.5 billion of its outstanding ordinary shares.  
As of December 29, 2017, $0.9 billion remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit. There is no expiration date on this authorization.  
