See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Seagate Technology plc (“STX”) and its subsidiaries (collectively, unless the context otherwise indicates, the “Company”) is a leading provider of data storage technology and solutions.
In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”), solid state hybrid drives (“SSHDs”) and storage subsystems.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, reliability, high quality and cost effectiveness.
The Company’s SSD product portfolio is mainly comprised of Serial Attached SCSI (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory Express (“NVMe”) and is designed for applications in enterprise servers and storage systems.
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (“EDS”) portfolio includes storage subsystems for enterprises, cloud service providers, scale-out storage servers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).
The Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances.
The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 2, 2019.
The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
The three months ended October 4, 2019 consisted of 14 weeks and the three months ended September 28, 2018 consisted of 13 weeks.
Fiscal year 2020, which ends on July 3, 2020, is comprised of 53 weeks and fiscal year 2019, which ended on June 28, 2019, is comprised of 52 weeks.
The fiscal quarters ended October 4, 2019, June 28, 2019 and September 28, 2018, are also referred to herein as the “September 2019 quarter”, the “June 2019 quarter”, and the “September 2018 quarter”, respectively.
In accordance with its policy, the Company reviews the estimated useful lives of its fixed assets on an ongoing basis.
This review indicated that the actual lives of certain manufacturing equipment at its manufacturing facilities were longer than the estimated useful lives used for deprecation purposes in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
As a result, effective June 29, 2019, the Company changed its estimate of the useful lives of its manufacturing equipment from a range of three to five years to a range of three to seven years.
The effect of this change in estimate increased the September 2019 quarter net income by $23 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.09.
Accordingly, the Company applied the new lease accounting standard prospectively to leases existing or commencing on or after June 29, 2019.
The Company elected to apply the practical expedients which allow for not reassessing whether existing contracts contain leases, the classification of existing leases and whether the existing initial direct costs meet the new definition.
In addition, the Company elected to combine lease and non-lease components for facility leases and to not recognize right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for leases with an initial term of 12 months of less on the balance sheet.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and the corresponding lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments and ROU assets are based on the lease liability, adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives received and the lessee’s initial direct costs.
As the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the net present value of future minimum lease payments is determined using the Company’s estimated incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date.
Additionally, the Company’s lease term may include options to extend or terminate the lease.
These options are reflected in the ROU asset and lease liability when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option.
The Company’s lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees.
Variable lease payments not dependent on an index or a rate primarily consist of common area maintenance charges, are expensed as incurred, and are not included in the ROU asset and lease liability calculation.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases and subsequently issued certain interpretive clarifications on this new guidance which amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring a lessee to recognize an ROU asset and corresponding lease liability for operating leases and enhanced disclosures.
As of June 29, 2019, adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and corresponding current and non-current lease liabilities of $115 million, $17 million and $57 million, respectively, on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily relating to real estate operating leases.
For information regarding the impact of ASC 842 adoption, see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Leases above and Note 5.
This ASU aligns the accounting for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the accounting for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
As of October 4, 2019, the Company’s Other current assets included $2 million in restricted cash and investments held as collateral at banks for various performance obligations.
As of October 4, 2019, the Company had no material available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.
The Company determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of October 4, 2019.
The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 28, 2019.
The loans made under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan will bear interest at a rate of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a variable margin for each facility that will be determined based on the corporate credit rating of the Company.
STX and certain of its material subsidiaries fully and unconditionally guarantee both the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan.
An aggregate amount of up to $75 million of the Revolving Credit Facility is available for the issuance of letters of credit, and an aggregate amount of up to $50 million of such facility is also available for swing line loans.
On September 17, 2019, Seagate HDD Cayman borrowed the $500 million principal amount under the Term Loan and the proceeds were used to repurchase a portion of its outstanding senior notes.
As of October 4, 2019, no borrowings were drawn and no letters of credit or swing line loans had been utilized under the Revolving Credit Facility.
The interest on the 2022 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year.
The issuer under the 2022 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2022 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
On September 18, 2019, the principal amount of approximately $250 million was repurchased pursuant to cash tender offers for certain senior notes (the “Tender Offers”).
The Company recorded a loss of $10 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 $1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due June 2023 (the “2023 Notes”).
The interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year.
The issuer under the 2023 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2023 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
On September 18, 2019, the principal amount of $200 million was repurchased pursuant to the Tender Offers.
The Company recorded a loss of $10 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due March 2024 (the “2024 Notes”).The interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year.
The issuer under the 2024 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2024 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due January 2025 (the “2025 Notes”).
The interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year.
The issuer under the 2025 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2025 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
On September 18, 2019, the principal amount of approximately $170 million was repurchased pursuant to the Tender Offers.
The Company recorded a loss of $8 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year.
The issuer under the 2027 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2027 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 5.75% Senior Notes due December 2034 (the “2034 Notes”).
The interest on the 2034 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year.
The issuer under the 2034 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2034 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
The Company’s income tax benefit of $2 million for the three months ended October 4, 2019 included approximately $11 million of net discrete tax benefit of which $8 million was associated with net excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation expense.
During the three months ended October 4, 2019, the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties increased by approximately $2 million to $85 million.
The Company’s income tax provision of $18 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018 included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense.
The Company is a lessee in several operating leases related to real estate facilities for warehouse and office space.
The Company’s lease arrangements comprise operating leases with various expiration dates through 2082.
6.Restructuring and Exit Costs
The Company’s significant restructuring plans are described below.
 December 2017 Plan - On December 8, 2017, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the “December 2017 Plan”) to reduce its cost structure.
The December 2017 Plan was substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2018.
 The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and to a lesser extent, equity market risks relating to its ongoing business operations.
From time to time, the Company enters into cash flow hedges in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The objective of foreign currency forward exchange contracts is to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk on forecasted expenses and investments denominated in foreign currencies.
In the September 2019 quarter, the Company entered into certain interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $500 million to convert the variable interest rate on its Term Loan to fixed interest rates.
The objective of the interest rate swap agreements is to eliminate the variability of interest payment cash flows associated with variable interest rates.
The Company’s accounting policies for these instruments are based on whether the instruments are classified as designated or non-designated hedging instruments.
The Company records all derivatives on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.
Derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments or are not assessed to be highly effective are adjusted to fair value through earnings.
The amount of net unrealized loss on cash flow hedges was not material as of October 4, 2019 and as of June 28, 2019.
The Company did not recognize any material amounts related to the loss of hedge designation on discontinued cash flow hedges during the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively.
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of foreign currency forward exchange contracts that the Company uses to hedge the foreign currency exposure on forecasted expenditures denominated in currency other than the U.S. dollar.
All of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts mature within 12 months.
The Company is subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by its employees as part of its Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan—the Seagate Deferred Compensation Plan (the “SDCP”).
In fiscal year 2014, the Company entered into a Total Return Swap (“TRS”) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the SDCP liabilities.
The Company pays a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS.
The TRS is designed to substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees.
The contract term of the TRS is through January 2020 and is settled on a monthly basis, therefore limiting counterparty performance risk.
The Company does not designate the TRS as a hedge.
Rather, the Company records all changes in the fair value of the TRS to earnings to offset the market value changes of the SDCP liabilities.
The amount of loss recognized in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges was $1 million for the three months ended October 4, 2019.
The amount of loss recognized in income related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationships and to the amount excluded from the assessment of hedge ineffectiveness was not material for the three months ended October 4, 2019.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Level 3 — Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.
Where appropriate the Company’s or the counterparty’s non-performance risk is considered in determining the fair values of liabilities and assets, respectively.
The Company classifies items in Level 1 if the financial assets consist of securities for which quoted prices are available in an active market.
As of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019, the carrying value of the Company’s strategic investments was $115 million and $114 million, respectively.
For the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, there were no upward or downward adjustments on equity investments.
As of June 28, 2019, the Company had $23 million of held for sale land and building (collectively, the “properties”) included in Other current assets on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In July 2019, the Company completed the sale of the properties.
As of October 4, 2019, the Company had no held for sale land and building.
The Company’s authorized share capital is $13,500 and consists of 1,250,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.00001, of which 262,624,650 shares were outstanding as of October 4, 2019, and 100,000,000 preferred shares, par value $0.00001, of which none were issued or outstanding as of October 4, 2019.
Ordinary shares—Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the board of directors (the “Board of Directors”).
Upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, after required payments are made to holders of preferred shares, any remaining assets will be distributed ratably to holders of the preferred and ordinary shares.
Holders of shares are entitled to one vote per share on all matters upon which the ordinary shares are entitled to vote, including the election of directors.
Preferred shares—The Company may issue preferred shares in one or more series, up to the authorized amount, without shareholder approval.
The Board of Directors is authorized to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each series, and to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of the shares of each wholly unissued series and any of its qualifications, limitations or restrictions.
The Board of Directors can also increase or decrease the number of shares of a series, but not below the number of shares of that series then outstanding, without any further vote or action by the shareholders.
The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred shares with voting or conversion rights that could harm the voting power or other rights of the holders of the ordinary shares.
 All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.
As of October 4, 2019, $1.7 billion remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit.
The indemnification agreements provide indemnification in addition to any of Indemnitee’s indemnification rights under any relevant Articles of Association (or similar constitutional document), applicable law or otherwise, and indemnifies an Indemnitee for certain expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and settlement amounts actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in any action or proceeding, including any action by or in the right of STX or any of its subsidiaries, arising out of his or her service as a director, officer, employee or agent of STX or any of its subsidiaries or of any other entity to which he or she provides services at the Company’s request.
In addition, the indemnification agreements provide that Seagate-Cayman will advance expenses incurred by an Indemnitee in connection with enforcement of the indemnification agreement or with the investigation, settlement or appeal of any action or proceeding against him or her as to which he or she could be indemnified.
Historically, the Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations.
The Company has entered into agreements with customers and suppliers that include limited intellectual property indemnification obligations that are customary in the industry.
Historically, the Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations.
The anti-dilutive shares related to employee equity award plans that were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share were not material for the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018.
Convolve, Inc. (“Convolve”) and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (“MIT”) v. Seagate Technology LLC, et al.
4,916,635 (the “‘635 patent”) and U.S. Patent No.
6,314,473 (the “‘473 patent”).
The district court ruled in 2010 that the ‘267 patent was out of the case.
7,128,988, “Magnetic Material Structures, Devices and Methods.” The Company believes the claims asserted in the complaint are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this case.
The court issued its claim construction ruling on October 18, 2017.
A jury trial in this matter is scheduled for June 1, 2020.
The Company’s operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites.
Some of the Company’s operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities.
The Company has established environmental management systems and continually updates its environmental policies and standard operating procedures for its operations worldwide.
The Company believes that its operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits.
Some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the “Superfund” law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity.
The Company has been identified as a responsible or potentially responsible party at several sites.
At each of these sites, the Company has an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties.
The Company has fulfilled its responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time.
The Company is involved in a number of other judicial, regulatory or administrative proceedings and investigations incidental to its business, and the Company may be involved in such proceedings and investigations arising in the normal course of its business in the future.
On October 28, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.65 per share, which will be payable on January 8, 2020 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 26, 2019.
For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1.
Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019.
