fls.txt
Similarly, statements herein that describe TI’s business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
Revenue from products shipped into China was $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion in the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
We have agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 9 million and 5 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of March 31, 2019.


item2.txt
Some of our products generate revenue for decades, which strengthens the return on our investments.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash and return that cash to shareholders.
Our cash flow from operations of $7.2 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was $6.0 billion and represents 38.4% of revenue.
This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production.
Our strategy is to return all our free cash flow to shareholders.
Over the last 12 months, our dividends represented 45% of free cash flow, underscoring their sustainability.
We continue to expect our annual operating tax rate to be about 16% in 2019.
For an explanation of free cash flow and the term “annual operating tax rate,” see the Non-GAAP financial information section.
Revenue of $3.59 billion decreased $195 million, or 5%, due to lower revenue from Embedded Processing and Analog.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Information concerning our risk factors is contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, and is incorporated by reference herein.
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $6.0 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 21, 2017.


