Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
The Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows for the periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018, are not audited but reflect all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature and are necessary for a fair statement of the results of the periods shown.
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Control is considered transferred when title and risk of loss pass, when the customer becomes obligated to pay and, where required, when the customer has accepted the products.
For sales to distributors, payment is due on our standard commercial terms and is not contingent upon resale of the products.
Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products.Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash, and return that cash to shareholders.
See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments.
All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
Our third-quarter revenue was $4.26 billion, net income was $1.57 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.58.Information concerning our risk factors is contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and is incorporated by reference herein.