fls.txt



item1.txt
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products.
Revenue from products shipped into China, including Hong Kong, was $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion in the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $3.3 billion and $3.1 billion in the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and on the same basis as the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, except for the effects of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
For sales to distributors, payment is due on our standard commercial terms and is not contingent upon resale of the products.
Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products.
These allowances, which are not material, generally include adjustments for pricing arrangements, product returns and incentives.
We recognize shipping fees, if any, received from customers in revenue.
Potentially dilutive securities representing 5 million and 6 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, and during the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share for these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of June 30, 2018.


item2.txt
Broadest reach of market channels.
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
Analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity, and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
We also believe that free cash flow will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash, and return that cash to shareholders.
See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments.
All dollar amounts in the tables are stated in millions of U.S. dollars.
Our second-quarter revenue was $4.02 billion, net income was $1.41 billion and earnings per share (EPS) were $1.40.
Demand for our Analog and Embedded Processing products continued to be strong in the industrial and automotive markets.
Our cash flow from operations of $6.6 billion for the trailing 12 months again underscored the strength of our business model.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Information concerning our risk factors is contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and is incorporated by reference herein.


