fls.txt



item1.txt
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments.
Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
We have agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component.


item2.txt
Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets, which we believe represent the best growth opportunities.
This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term.
The combined effect of these sustainable competitive advantages is that over time we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and have grown free cash flow.
Our business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash and return that cash to shareholders.
See Note 1 to the financial statements for more information regarding our segments.
Increases and decreases in factory loadings tend to correspond to increases and decreases in demand.
Revenue decreased 9% from the same quarter a year ago due to broad-based weakness.
Free cash flow for the trailing 12 months was $5.9 billion and 39% of revenue.
This reflects the quality of our product portfolio, as well as the efficiency of our manufacturing strategy, including the benefit of 300-millimeter Analog production.
We have returned $8.0 billion to shareholders in the past 12 months through stock repurchases and dividends.
Our strategy is to return all our free cash flow to shareholders.
Over the last 12 months, our dividends represented 47% of free cash flow, underscoring their sustainability.
For an explanation of free cash flow and the term “annual operating tax rate,” see the Non-GAAP financial information section.
Revenue of $3.67 billion decreased $349 million, or 9%, primarily due to lower revenue from Analog and Embedded Processing.
Gross profit of $2.36 billion was down $259 million, or 10%, due to lower revenue.


item4.txt



part2.txt
All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $6.0 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 21, 2017.
On September 20, 2018, our board of directors authorized the purchase of an additional $12.0 billion of our common stock.


