fls.txt
These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and our potential financial performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially and adversely from what is projected or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
The parties thereafter filed and argued a number of motions for summary judgment, and the Court denied the majority of the parties’ motions but granted the Company’s motion to preclude Fairchild from re-arguing validity positions that were rejected in the prior case between the parties.
PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
On December 18, 2009, the Court issued an order construing certain terms in the asserted claims of the Company’s and Fairchild’s patents in suit.
On January 12, 2009, Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the Court’s refusal to enter a more permanent stay of the injunction, and Fairchild filed additional motions requesting that both the Federal Circuit and the District Court extend the stay of injunction.
The Company also, from time to time, has granted a specific indemnification right to individual customers.
Fairchild submitted further materials on the issue of enforceability along with various other post-trial motions, and the Company filed post-trial motions seeking a permanent injunction and increased damages and attorneys’ fees, among other things.
PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
From time to time in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in lawsuits, or customers and distributors may make claims against the Company.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2018, was approximately $6.1 million, comprising approximately $3.9 million related to RSUs, $1.8 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
Under the terms of the Company's wafer-supply agreements with Seiko Epson Corporation ("Epson"), and ROHM Lapis Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ("Lapis") the wafers purchased from these suppliers are priced in U.S. dollars, with mutual sharing of the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar on future purchases.
The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance.
In each of the three prior cases, Fairchild was found to infringe one of the patents at issue in the latest complaint, and Fairchild’s challenges to the validity of the patents were rejected during the course of the prior lawsuits as well.
On May 23, 2008, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
In each of the three prior cases, Fairchild was found to infringe one of the patents at issue in the latest complaint, and Fairchild’s challenges to the validity of the patents were rejected during the course of the prior lawsuits as well.
Except for the adoption of the new accounting standards for leases mentioned below, no material changes have been made to the Company’s significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 13, 2019, for the year ended December 31, 2018.
On January 13, 2015, the District Court entered final judgment on the liability and validity issues discussed above, and both parties filed appeals with the Federal Circuit.


item2.txt
In the six months ended June 30, 2019 we repurchased approximately 121,000 shares of our common stock for approximately $7.3 million.
Total operating expenses were $41.8 million and $40.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $81.2 million and $80.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
See also “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report.
These decreases were partially offset by growth in the communications and computer end markets, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone and tablet chargers, respectively.
These combinations of switches and drivers are used for power conversion in high-power applications (i.e., power levels ranging from a few kilowatts up to one gigawatt) such as industrial motors, solar- and wind-power systems, electric vehicles and high-voltage DC transmission systems.
Operating activities generated cash of $20.5 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
•Increase our penetration of the markets we serve.
We paid a total of $18.8 million in cash dividends in 2018.
These combinations of switches and drivers are used for power conversion in high-power applications (i.e., power levels ranging from a few kilowatts up to one gigawatt) such as industrial motors, solar- and wind-power systems, electric vehicles and high-voltage DC transmission systems.


item3.txt
Nevertheless, as a result of these supplier agreements, our gross margin is influenced by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen.
Our portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to facilitate portfolio liquidity.


item4.txt
Due to the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error may occur and may not be detected.


part2.txt



