Fairchild challenged these rulings in post-trial motions, but the judge confirmed the jury’s determinations on infringement and damages, although the Court declined to find Fairchild’s infringement willful.
In parallel proceedings, the Federal Circuit overturned the underlying finding of infringement against the Company on the Fairchild patent-in-suit, and the Company moved to vacate the inducement and damages judgment against the Company, a motion that Fairchild did not oppose.
The Company is required to adopt the amendments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, with early adoption permitted.
After the Company filed a motion to dismiss, ON Semiconductor filed an amended complaint; the Company has answered ON Semiconductor’s complaint and asserted claims for infringement of several of the Company’s patents.
The Company's cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
The Company filed a petition seeking Supreme Court review of the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages issues, and the Supreme Court called for a response from Fairchild but ultimately declined to review the case.
In one case, the PTO rejected as anticipated the claims of the Company’s U.S. Patent No.
The DSA generally limits the scope of and remedies for the Customer Indemnification obligations in a variety of industry-standard respects, including, but not limited to, limitations based on time and geography, and a right to replace an infringing product.
These benefits were offset in part by the estimated 2018 GILTI tax for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018.
On August 11, 2016, ON Semiconductor filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona.
Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the final judgment and a number of the underlying rulings, and the Company filed a cross-appeal seeking to increase the damages award.There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in “Item 7.
Also contributing to our SAM expansion has been the emergence of new applications within the power ranges that our products can address.
These sources of cash were partially offset by a $12.2 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased shipments, an $8.3 million increase in prepaid expenses and a $3.6 million decrease in accounts payable due primarily to the timing of payments.
As of June 30, 2018, we had $246.7 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities, a decrease of approximately $36.2 million from $282.9 million as of December 31, 2017.
Our investing activities provided $79.3 million of cash in the six months ended June 30, 2018, consisting of $90.4 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $10.5 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily for manufacturing.As of June 30, 2018, our primary transactional currency was U.S. dollars; in addition, we hold cash in Swiss francs and euro.