fls.txt



item1.txt
The Court did, however, award $7.1 million in pre-judgement interest as a result of Fairchild’s infringement.
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
The parties thereafter filed and argued a number of motions for summary judgment, and the Court denied the majority of the parties’ motions but granted the Company’s motion to preclude Fairchild from re-arguing validity positions that were rejected in the prior case between the parties.
The Company's effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, were 8.0% and 4.7%, respectively, and 7.6% and 6.3%, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018.
On May 1, 2012, Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary, System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
This case is subject to the Definitive Agreement noted above, whereby the Company and ON are filing papers to dismiss, withdraw, or terminate all of the pending legal proceedings between the parties.
In addition, the Company requires its employees to sign a proprietary information and inventions agreement, which assigns the rights to its employees' development work to the Company.
The Company does not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to its customers.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company maintained a valuation allowance on its California deferred tax assets, New Jersey deferred tax assets, and capital losses for federal purposes, and a valuation allowance with respect to its deferred tax assets relating to tax credits in Canada.
On April 18, 2011, the Court rescheduled the trial to begin in January 2012, and on June 2, 2011, the Court moved the trial date to April 2012 to permit the parties to address another patent the Company accused Fairchild of infringing.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had approximately $43.9 million remaining under its current repurchase program, which has no expiration date.
No other customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s net revenues in the periods presented.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2019, was approximately $5.1 million, comprising approximately $4.4 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $0.3 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan.
The accounting by lessors will remain largely unchanged from that applied under previous U.S. GAAP.
In addition, the Company elected the practical expedient to recognize lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.


item2.txt
Our gross margin for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was 51%, and was 52% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018.
of litigation expenses beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Net revenues decreased in the nine-month period as the broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets outweighed the growth in the communications end market.
In each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, one customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues.
As of September 30, 2019, we had a contractual obligation related to income tax, which consisted primarily of unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $20.2 million.
Prior to 2010 our addressable market consisted of AC-DC applications with up to about 50 watts of output, a served available market (“SAM”) opportunity of approximately $1.5 billion.
The decrease in gross margin was due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs along with an unfavorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from lower-margin end-markets.
Net revenues decreased in the nine-month period as the broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets outweighed growth in the communications end market.
Sales to distributors accounted for 68% and 73% of net revenues in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and 76% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018.
Net income for this period was $35.2 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization and deferred income taxes of $15.0 million, $14.3 million, $3.8 million and $1.3 million, respectively.


item3.txt
Each year, our management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing is denominated in U.S. dollars but is subject to contractual exchange rate provisions.
The fluctuation in the exchange rate is shared equally between us and each of these suppliers on future purchases.


item4.txt



part2.txt



