fls.txt
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and our results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and with the consolidated financial statements and management’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 14, 2018.


item1.txt
The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance.
On March 5, 2009, Fairchild filed a motion for summary judgment to preclude any recovery for post-verdict sales of parts found to infringe in the parties’ other ongoing litigation, described above, and the Company filed its opposition and a cross-motion to preclude Fairchild from re-litigating the issues of infringement and damages for those same products.
As the net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals are considered performance conditions, expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the service period based on an assessment of the achievement of the performance targets.
The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance.
SAB 118 provides a measurement period that should not extend beyond one year from the Tax Act enactment date for companies to complete the accounting under ASC 740.
On June 10, 2005, in response to the initiation of an International Trade Commission (ITC) investigation on the patents asserted in the District Court lawsuit, the District Court stayed all proceedings.
In one case, the PTO rejected as anticipated the claims of the Company’s U.S. Patent No.
The Company also, from time to time, has granted a specific indemnification right to individual customers.
The parties thereafter filed and argued a number of motions for summary judgment, and the Court denied the majority of the parties’ motions but granted the Company’s motion to preclude Fairchild from re-arguing validity positions that were rejected in the prior case between the parties.
In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has and is infringing four of Power Integrations’ patents pertaining to pulse width modulation (PWM) integrated circuit devices.
These distributors sell the Company’s products to a broad, diverse range of end users, including OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers.
The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number.
On April 1, 2016, Opticurrent, LLC filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
Following a hearing in May 2015, the Federal Circuit ruled in the Company’s favor on August 12, 2015, overturning the PTO’s claim construction and remanding the case for further proceedings.
On June 10, 2005, in response to the initiation of an International Trade Commission (ITC) investigation on the patents asserted in the District Court lawsuit, the District Court stayed all proceedings.
In view of the Federal Circuit’s rejection of the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement, the Court also vacated the inducement findings and associated injunction against Fairchild and remanded the case for a retrial on inducement, but the underlying validity and infringement findings against Fairchild on those two patents remain intact.
The Company's cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.


item2.txt
Our investing activities provided $45.4 million of cash in the three months ended March 31, 2018, consisting of $52.4 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $6.5 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment.
In January 2018, our board of directors declared four quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.16 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of each quarter in 2018.
These sources of cash were partially offset by a $6.1 million increase in inventory, reflecting anticipated demand, a $3.1 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid legal fees and prepaid maintenance agreements, as well as a $0.9 million increase in accounts receivable due to the timing of cash collections.
Net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were $103.1 million and $104.7 million, respectively.
Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficiency of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
For example, applications such as LED lighting, “smart” utility meters, battery-powered lawn equipment and bicycles, and USB power ports (installed alongside traditional AC wall outlets) can incorporate our products; the increased use of electronic intelligence and controls in consumer appliances has also enhanced our SAM.
Our market-penetration strategy also includes capitalizing on the importance of energy efficiency in the power conversion market.
Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, renewable-energy installations and electric transportation applications.
Because we purchase a large percentage of our silicon wafers from foundries located in Japan, our gross margin is influenced by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.
We maintain cash denominated in Swiss francs and euro to fund the operations of our Swiss subsidiary.


item4.txt
Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance as to the tested objectives.


part2.txt
In January 2018, our board of directors authorized the use of an additional $30.0 million for the repurchase of our common stock, which was announced on February 1, 2018.


