fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2017 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $2.0 million and $0.5 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
In March 2016, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payment awards issued to employees.
Additionally, the entity can make an accounting policy election to either estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest, consistent with the current accounting guidance, or account for forfeitures as they occur.
In March 2016, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting guidance to simplify accounting for embedded derivatives.
An entity performing the assessment in accordance with this guidance is required to assess the embedded call (put) options solely in accordance with the four-step decision process set forth in the guidance.
In February 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting lease transactions.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting credit losses.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.


item2.txt
·    Overview.
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016.
We are a leading global provider of automation and cryogenic solutions for multiple applications and markets.
We primarily serve the semiconductor capital equipment market and sample management market for life sciences.
Over the past several years, we have acquired and developed essential capabilities required to strategically address the sample management needs across multiple end markets within the life sciences industry.
Please refer to Note 4, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on this transaction.
Results of Operations- Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased to $189.3 million, or by 18%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Operating expenses were $54.4 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $43.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, an increase of $10.6 million.
The increase of $2.6 million was primarily attributable to the increase in operating income of $7.7 million, as noted above, partically offset by the impact of non-operating expenses which reduced net income by $5.3 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cash Flows and Liquidity- Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $231.9 million at December 31, 2017 as compared to $104.3 million at September 30, 2017.
The increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $127.6 million was primarily attributable to cash inflows of $197.6 million related to proceeds from the term loan and cash inflows of $3.2 million generated from our operating activities, partially offset by cash outflows related to acquisition payments of $65.1 million, dividend payments of $7.1 million made to our shareholders during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, as well as capital expenditures of $2.7 million.
Cash inflows of $3.2 million generated from operating activities during the three months ended December 31, 2017 were comprised primarily of earnings of $27.1 million, including net income of $16.5 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $10.6 million, partially offset by uses of cash of $23.9 million related to the changes in our operating assests and liabilities, net of acquisitions.


item3.txt
Our term loan bears variable interest rates which subjects us to interest rate risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.


