fls.txt
The Company evaluates the realizability of its deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assesses the need for a valuation allowance on an annual and quarterly basis.


item1.txt
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group), (the “Disposition”).
The Company determined that the cryogenics business met the “held for sale” criteria and the “discontinued operations” criteria in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, Presentation of Financial Statements, (“FASB ASC 205”) as of September 30, 2018.
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company identified a misclassification related to the presentation of the product and service revenue and the cost of product and service revenue related to GENEWIZ in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
GENEWIZ was acquired during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and therefore the misclassifiation did not impact any other historical periods.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.6 million and $0.5 million, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 and $0.6 million and $2.5 million, respectively, during the six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
This interim period disclosure exemption is consistent with ASC 842, which already allowed companies to exclude the annual effect of the accounting change on income from continuing operations, net income and per-share amounts for periods post-adoption.
The amendment removes disclosure requirement for accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized over the next year, information about plan assets to be returned to the entity, and the effects of a one-percentage-point change on the assumed health care costs and the effect of this change in rates on service cost, interest cost, and the benefit obligation for postretirement health care benefits.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB ASC.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition, ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The guidance also specifies the accounting for certain costs to obtain and fulfill a contract, as codified in ASC 340-40 Accounting for Other Assets and Deferred Costs (“ASC 340-40”).


item2.txt
·    Overview.
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended March 31, 2018.
In the life sciences sample-based services market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
Please refer to Note 5, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on these transactions.
Gross margin was 40.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to 39.7% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $18.1 million.
Operating expenses were $66.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $52.1 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $14.8 million.
Operating income was $13.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to $10.3 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Loss from continuing operations was $2.8 million for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, which includes a $9.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt.
This compares to income from continuing operations of $62.5 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, which included the reversal of the valuation allowance reserve against U.S. deferred income tax assets of $58.0 million.


item3.txt
Our term loans bear variable interest rates which subject us to interest rate risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt



