fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2017 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and $2.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively, during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
In February 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting lease transactions.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting credit losses.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition.
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
Based on the preliminary assessment, the Company anticipates that the new guidance will impact the timing of revenue recognition for a portion of its life science revenue which is currently accounted for under the percentage of completion method.
The Company may be required to recognize revenue for a portion of these arrangements at the point in time it satisfies performance obligations by transferring control over promised deliverables to customers in accordance with the contractual terms of each arrangement.


item2.txt
·    Overview.
This section discusses accounting policies and estimates that require us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in their application.
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended March 31, 2017.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q to "we", "us", "our" and "the Company" refer to Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
We primarily serve the semiconductor capital equipment market and sample management market for life sciences.
In the life sciences sample management market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
Our offerings include automated ultra-cold storage freezers, consumable sample storage containers, instruments which assist in the workflow of sample management, and both complete on-site and off-site full sample management services.
Please refer to Note 4, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on this transaction.
Operating expenses were $60.4 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $49.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2017, an increase of $10.7 million.
Net income was $67.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to $14.0 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
These increases were partially offset by higher non-operating expenses of $1.9 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, primarily related to interest expense on the term loan and lower net income from equity method investments of $1.4 million.
Results of Operations- Revenue for the six months ended March 31, 2018 increased to $396.6 million, or by 20%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.


item3.txt
Our term loan bears variable interest rates which subjects us to interest rate risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.


