fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2017 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.6 million and $0.7 million, respectively, during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and $3.1 million and $1.6 million, respectively, during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present the assets at the amount expected to be collected.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition, ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customer (“ASC 606”).
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The Company has established an implementation team to assist with its assessment of the impact of the new revenue guidance on its operations, consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Based on the procedures performed to date, the Company expects changes to the consolidated balance sheet related to accounts receivable, contract assets, and contract liabilities, as well as, significant changes to the Company’s disclosures, to comply with the new disclosure requirements under ASC 606.
For further information with regard to the Company’s Significant Accounting Policies, please refer to Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.
The Company invests in marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale and records them at fair value in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
There were no sales of marketable securities during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018.
During each of the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, the Company sold marketable securities with a fair value and amortized cost of $3.6 million each and recognized net losses of less than $0.1 million.


item2.txt
·    Overview.
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017.
We are a leading global provider of automation and cryogenic solutions for multiple applications and markets.
We primarily serve the semiconductor capital equipment market and sample management market for the life sciences industry.
In April 2018, we acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation, or BioSpeciMan, a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
We made a total cash payment of $5.2 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.
Please refer to Note 4, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on these transactions.
Results of Operations- Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased to $223.5 million, or by 23%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Operating expenses were $62.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $52.8 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2017, an increase of $9.7 million.
Net income was $22.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to $17.4 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase of $5.3 million was primarily attributable to the increase in operating income of $7.9 million, partially offset by an increase in net non-operating expenses of $3.0 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, primarily related to interest expense on the term loan and lower income from equity method investments of $1.2 million.
Results of Operations- Revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased to $620.1 million, or by 21%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.


item3.txt
Our term loan bears variable interest rates which subjects us to interest rate risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.


