item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Preformed Line Products Company and subsidiaries (the “Company” or “PLPC”) have been prepared in accordance with United States of America (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. 
Net sales include products and shipping and handling charges, net of estimates for product returns. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products. All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies the performance obligations under the contract and control of the product is transferred to the customer, primarily based on shipping terms. Revenue for shipping and handling charges are recognized at the time the products are shipped to, delivered to or picked up by the customer. The Company estimates product returns based on historical return rates.  
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $24.3 million at March 31, 2018 and $25.1 million at December 31, 2017. An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time. Accordingly, interim LIFO calculations are based on management’s estimates of expected year-end inventory levels and costs. Because these estimates are subject to change and may be different than the actual inventory levels and costs at the end of the year, interim results are subject to the final year-end LIFO inventory valuation. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.2 million and $.1 million of expense to Income before income taxes, respectively. 
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period. Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented. 
The Company’s measurement date for its annual impairment test for goodwill is October 1st of each year. The Company performs its annual impairment test for goodwill utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology, market comparables, and an overall market capitalization reasonableness test in computing fair value by reporting unit. The Company then compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value to assess if goodwill has been impaired. Based on the assumptions as to growth, discount rates and the weighting used for each respective valuation methodology, results of the valuations could be significantly different. However, the Company believes that the methodologies and weightings used are reasonable and result in appropriate fair values of the reporting units. The Company’s valuation method uses Level 3 inputs under the fair value hierarchy. 
The Company maintains an equity award program to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining, and motivating officers, employees and directors and to provide an incentive to those individuals to increase shareholder value through long-term incentives directly linked to the Company’s performance. Under the Preformed Line Products Company Long Term Incentive Plan of 2008 (the “LTIP”), certain employees, officers, and directors were eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and restricted share units (RSUs). The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the LTIP was 900,000, of which 800,000 common shares were reserved for RSUs and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options. The LTIP was terminated and replaced with the Preformed Line Products Company 2016 Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) in May 2016 upon approval by the Company’s Shareholders at the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 10, 2016. No further awards will be made under the LTIP and previously granted awards remain outstanding in accordance with their terms. Under the Incentive Plan, certain employees, officers, and directors will be eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and RSUs. The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the Incentive Plan is 1,000,000 of which 900,000 common shares have been reserved for restricted share awards and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options. The Incentive Plan expires on May 10, 2026. 
For the regular annual grants, a portion of the RSUs is subject to time-based cliff vesting and a portion is subject to vesting based upon the Company’s performance over a set period for all participants except the CEO. All of the CEO’s regular annual RSUs are subject to vesting based upon the Company’s performance over a set-year period. 
For time-based RSUs, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award in General and administrative expense in the accompanying Statements of Consolidated Income. Compensation expense related to the time-based RSUs for both three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $.1 million. As of March 31, 2018, there was $1.0 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to time-based RSUs that is expected to be recognized over the weighted-average remaining period of approximately 2.3 years. 
The Company utilizes the Black-Scholes option pricing model for estimating fair values of options. The Black-Scholes model requires assumptions regarding the volatility of the Company’s stock, the expected life of the stock award and the Company’s dividend yield. The Company utilizes historical data in determining these assumptions. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. zero coupon Treasury yield in effect at the time of grant. 
The Company maintains a trust, commonly referred to as a rabbi trust, in connection with the Company’s deferred compensation plan. This plan allows for two deferrals. First, Directors make elective deferrals of Director fees payable and held in the rabbi trust. The deferred compensation plan allows the Directors to elect to receive Director fees in common shares of the Company at a later date instead of fees paid each quarter in cash. Second, this plan allows certain Company employees to defer restricted shares or RSUs for future distribution in the form of common shares. Assets of the rabbi trust are consolidated, and the value of the Company’s common shares held in the rabbi trust is classified in Shareholders’ equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock. The Company recognizes the original amount of the deferred compensation (fair value of the deferred stock award at the date of grant) as the basis for recognition in common shares issued to the rabbi trust. Changes in the fair value of amounts owed to certain employees or Directors are not recognized as the Company’s deferred compensation plan does not permit diversification and must be settled by the delivery of a fixed number of the Company’s common shares. As of March 31, 2018, 289,138 shares have been deferred and are being held in the rabbi trust. 
The Company has a non-qualified Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan for its executives. The liability for this unfunded Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan was $4.7 million and $4.8 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, and is recorded within Other noncurrent liabilities on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. During January 2018, the Company amended the Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan to allow the participants the ability to hypothetically invest their proportionate award into various investment options, which primarily includes mutual funds. The company then credits earnings, gains and losses to the participants’ deferred compensation account balances based on the investments selected by the participants. The Company measures the fair value of the Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan liability using the market values of the participants’ underlying investment accounts.  
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, “Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost,” which requires that an employer report the service cost component in the same line item or items as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the pertinent employees during the period. The other components of net benefit cost are required to be presented in the income statement separately from the service cost component and outside a subtotal of income from operations, if one is presented. The Company adopted ASU 2017-07 as of January 1, 2018. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, “Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities”, which changes how companies recognize, measure, present and make disclosures about certain financial assets and financial liabilities. Under this guidance, entities have to measure certain equity investments, including available-for-sale securities, at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income. ASU 2016-01 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after 15 December 2017, and interim periods therein. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 effective January 1, 2018. As discussed in Note I, the Company purchased $4.3 million of available-for-sale marketable securities during the quarter ended March 31, 2018. The Company recognized less than $0.1 million of gains related to the change in the fair value of the marketable securities within Other income, net on the Company’s consolidated statements of income. Refer to Note I “Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities” for additional details regarding the Company’s marketable securities. 
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606),” or ASU 2014-09. ASU 2014-09 requires an entity to recognize revenue in a matter that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. To achieve that core principle, the amendment provides five steps that an entity should apply when recognizing revenue. The amendment also specifies the accounting of some costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer and expands the disclosure requirements around contracts with customers. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14 deferring the effective date of the amendment to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods therein.  
The Company developed and executed on an implementation plan in order to adopt the new guidance on January 1, 2018. The Company established a cross-functional implementation team to analyze the impact of the standard on revenue contracts, which included scoping its revenue streams and reviewing contracts in order to compare historical accounting policies and practices to the new revenue standards.  In addition, the Company implemented changes to processes and controls to meet the standard’s reporting and disclosure requirements. The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method applied to contracts that were not yet completed at that date. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be presented based on the Company’s historic accounting policy. The cumulative impact of adopting ASU 2014-09 as of January 1, 2018 did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Further, the Company does not expect the impact of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 to be material to its consolidated financial statements on an ongoing basis.  Refer to Note B “Revenue” for additional details regarding the Company’s revenue recognition policy.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” The amendments in this Update require the recognition of assets and liabilities arising from lease transactions on the balance sheet and the disclosure of key information about leasing arrangements. Accordingly, a lessee will recognize a lease asset for its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability for the corresponding lease obligation. Both the asset and liability will initially be measured at the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term. Subsequent measurement, including the presentation of expenses and cash flows, will depend on the classification of the lease as either a finance or an operating lease. Initial costs directly attributable to negotiating and arranging the lease will be included in the asset. For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee can make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset to not recognize an asset and corresponding liability. Lessees will also be required to provide additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. These disclosures are intended to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements and provide additional information about the nature of an organization’s leasing activities. The amendments in this Update are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating what impact its adoption will have to the presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
The following tables present a summary of the Company’s reportable segments for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Financial results for the PLP-USA segment include the elimination of all segments’ intercompany profit in inventory. 
As a result of the application of SAB 118, the Company recorded provisional amounts related to the reduction of its deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from the tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% and for the Transition Tax at December 31, 2017. The Company has not made any material changes to these provisional amounts during the period ending March 31, 2018. However, the Company is continuing to gather additional information to more precisely compute the impact of these law changes.  


item2.txt
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947. We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries. Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires. We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures. PLPC is respected around the world for quality, dependability and market-leading customer service. Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets. We have 27 sales and manufacturing operations in 18 different countries. 
The operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2018 are compared to the same period in 2017. Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $98.1 million increased $13.6 million, or 16%, compared to 2017. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit increased to 32.1% in 2018 from 29.2% in 2017. Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $31.5 million increased $6.9 million, or 27.8%, compared to 2017. Gross profit increased $6.2 million, or 25.2%, compared to 2017, excluding the favorable impact from currency translation. Costs and expenses of $23.8 million increased $1.4 million compared to 2017, including an unfavorable impact from currency translation of $.7 million. Operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $7.7 million, an increase of $5.5 million compared to 2017. Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $5.5 million increased $4.0 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The effect of currency translation had immaterial favorable impacts on both operating income and net income of $.1 million. 
Despite the constant changes in the current global economy, we believe our business fundamentals and our financial position are sound and that we are strategically well-positioned. We remain focused on assessing our business structure, global facilities and overall capacity in conjunction with the requirements of local manufacturing in the markets that we serve. If necessary, we will modify redundant processes and utilize our global manufacturing network to manage costs, increase sales volumes and deliver value to our customers. We have continued to invest in the business to improve efficiency, develop new products, increase our capacity and become an even stronger supplier to our customers. We currently have a bank debt to equity ratio of 19.1% and can borrow needed funds at a competitive interest rate under our credit facility. 
The increase in PLP-USA net sales of $4.6 million, or 13%, was primarily due to a volume increase in formed wire and hardware related product sales and protective closure product sales. International net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were favorably affected by $2.7 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of net sales excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net sales of $19.5 million increased $3.3 million, or 20%, primarily due to a volume increase in formed wire and hardware related product sales and protective closure product sales. EMEA net sales of $15.1 million decreased $.7 million, or 5%, primarily due to a volume decrease in formed wire and hardware related product sales and protective closure product sales in the region. In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $24.1 million increased $3.7 million, or 13%, compared to 2017 primarily due to a sales volume increase in formed wire and hardware related products. 
PLP-USA gross profit of $13.5 million increased $3.5 million compared to the same period in 2017 as a result of higher sales volume combined with a product sales mix shift to higher margin products. International gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was favorably impacted by $.6 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of gross profit excludes the effects of currency translation. The Americas gross profit increase of $2.3 million was primarily the result of the sales increase of $3.3 million combined with product margin improvement in the region due to sales mix. EMEA gross profit decreased $.4 mainly as a result of a $.7 million decrease in sales. Asia-Pacific gross profit increased $.7 million mainly as a result of a $3.7 million increase in sales in conjunction with higher volumes in the region. 
PLP-USA costs and expenses of $11.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $.5 million, or 4%, compared to 2017 mainly due to $.3 million of higher personnel related expenses, which includes benefits, combined with $.1 million of higher professional fees and lower foreign currency exchange gains of $.1 million. Foreign currency exchange gains are primarily related to translating into U.S. dollars its foreign denominated loans, trade and royalty receivables from its foreign subsidiaries at the March 31, 2018 exchange rates. On a consolidated basis, costs and expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were unfavorably impacted by $.7 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of costs and expenses excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas costs and expenses of $3.5 million increased $.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to higher salary related expense of $.2 million. EMEA costs and expenses of $3.9 million decreased $.1 million mainly due to a decrease in personnel related expenses of $.1 million. Asia-Pacific costs and expenses of $5.3 million increased $.2 million. This increase was primarily due to increased net loss on foreign currency exchange of $.2 million. 
PLP-USA’s net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $2.3 million compared to the same period in 2017 due to a $3.1 million increase in operating income that was partially offset by an increase in income taxes of $.8 million. The following discussion of net income excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net income increased $1.3 million as a result of a $3.1 million increase in operating income, partially offset by higher income taxes of $.8 million. EMEA net income decreased $.3 million as a result of a $.3 million decrease in operating income combined with no year-over-year impact from income tax expense. Asia-Pacific net income increased $.5 million as a result of a $.5 million increase in operating income with no year-over-year impact resulting from income tax expense. 
Our investments include expenditures required for equipment and facilities as well as expenditures in support of our strategic initiatives. During the first three months of 2018, we used cash of $2.7 million for capital expenditures. We ended the first three months of 2018 with $45.5 million of cash and cash equivalents. Our cash and cash equivalents are held in various locations throughout the world. At March 31, 2018, the majority of our cash and cash equivalents were held outside the U.S. We expect most accumulated non-U.S. cash balances will remain outside of the U.S. and that we will meet U.S. liquidity needs through future cash flows, use of U.S. cash balances, external borrowings, or some combination of these sources. We complete comprehensive reviews of our significant customers and their creditworthiness by analyzing financial statements for customers where we have identified a measure of increased risk. We closely monitor payments and developments which may signal possible customer credit issues. We currently have not identified any potential material impact on our liquidity from customer credit issues. 


item3.txt
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had no foreign currency forward exchange contracts outstanding. The Company does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. 


item4.txt
The Company’s Principal Executive Officer and Principal Accounting Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) or Rule 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, were effective as of March 31, 2018. 


part2.txt
The Company and its subsidiaries, Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the “Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”). 
There were no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 9, 2018. 


