item1.txt
Net sales include products and shipping and handling charges, net of estimates for product returns. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products. All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies the performance obligations under the contract and control of the product is transferred to the customer, primarily based on shipping terms. Revenue for shipping and handling charges are recognized at the time the products are shipped to, delivered to or picked up by the customer. The Company estimates product returns based on historical return rates.  
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $25.8 million at September 30, 2018 and $25.1 million at December 31, 2017. An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time. Accordingly, interim LIFO calculations are based on management’s estimates of expected year-end inventory levels and costs. Because these estimates are subject to change and may be different than the actual inventory levels and costs at the end of the year, interim results are subject to the final year-end LIFO inventory valuation. During the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.6 million and $1.1 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes. During the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2017, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in a less than $.1 million and $.2 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes. 
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the  
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period. Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented. 
For both the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, no stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as there was no anti-dilutive effect. For the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2017, 27,000 and 35,584 stock options, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the effect would have been anti-dilutive.  
The Company’s measurement date for its annual impairment test for goodwill is October 1st of each year. The Company performs its annual impairment test for goodwill utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology, market comparables, and an overall market capitalization reasonableness test in computing fair value by reporting unit. The Company then compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value to assess if goodwill has been impaired. Based on the assumptions as to growth, discount rates and the weighting used for each respective valuation methodology, results of the valuations could be significantly different. However, the Company believes that the methodologies and weightings used are reasonable and result in appropriate fair values of the reporting units. The Company’s valuation method uses Level 3 inputs under the fair value hierarchy. 
The Company maintains an equity award program to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining, and motivating officers, employees and directors and to provide an incentive to those individuals to increase shareholder value through long-term incentives directly linked to the Company’s performance. Under the Preformed Line Products Company Long Term Incentive Plan of 2008 (the “LTIP”), certain employees, officers, and directors were eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and restricted share units (RSUs). The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the LTIP was 900,000, of which 800,000 common shares were reserved for RSUs and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options. The LTIP was terminated and replaced with the Preformed Line Products Company 2016 Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) in May 2016 upon approval by the Company’s Shareholders at the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 10, 2016. No further awards will be made under the LTIP and previously granted awards remain outstanding in accordance with their terms. Under the Incentive Plan, certain employees, officers, and directors will be eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and RSUs. The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the Incentive Plan is 1,000,000 of which 900,000 common shares have been reserved for restricted share awards and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options. The Incentive Plan expires on May 10, 2026. 
For the performance-based RSUs, the number of RSUs in which the participants will vest depends on the Company’s level of performance measured by growth in either operating or pre-tax income and sales growth over a requisite performance period. Depending on the extent to which the performance criterions are satisfied under the LTIP and the Incentive Plan, the participants are eligible to earn common shares over the vesting period. RSUs forfeited in 2018 are those from the 2015 grants for which pre-tax income and sales growth performance were not achieved. Performance-based compensation expense for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 was $1.3 million and $2.7 million, respectively. Performance-based compensation expense for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2017 was $.9 million and $1.8 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2018, the remaining compensation expense of $5.5 million for outstanding performance-based RSU’s is expected to be recognized over a period of approximately 1.9 years. 
The LTIP permitted and now the Incentive Plan permits the grant of 100,000 options to buy common shares of the Company to certain employees at not less than fair market value of the shares on the date of grant. Options issued to date under the LTIP and the Incentive Plan vest 50% after one year following the date of the grant, 75% after two years, and 100% after three years, and expire from five to ten years from the date of grant. Shares issued as a result of stock option exercises will be funded with the issuance of new shares. 
The Company utilizes the Black-Scholes option pricing model for estimating fair values of options. The Black-Scholes model requires assumptions regarding the volatility of the Company’s stock, the expected life of the stock award and the Company’s dividend yield. The Company utilizes historical data in determining these assumptions. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. zero coupon Treasury yield in effect at the time of grant. 
The Company maintains a trust, commonly referred to as a rabbi trust, in connection with the Company’s deferred compensation plan. This plan allows for two deferrals. First, Directors make elective deferrals of Director fees payable and held in the rabbi trust. The deferred compensation plan allows the Directors to elect to receive Director fees in common shares of the Company at a later date instead of fees paid each quarter in cash. Second, this plan allows certain Company employees to defer restricted shares or RSUs for future distribution in the form of common shares. Assets of the rabbi trust are consolidated, and the value of the Company’s common shares held in the rabbi trust is classified in Shareholders’ equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock. The Company recognizes the original amount of the deferred compensation (fair value of the deferred stock award at the date of grant) as the basis for recognition in common shares issued to the rabbi trust. Changes in the fair value of amounts owed to certain employees or Directors are not recognized as the Company’s deferred compensation plan does not permit diversification and must be settled by the delivery of a fixed number of the Company’s common shares. As of September 30, 2018, 269,630 shares have been deferred and are being held in the rabbi trust. 
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company invested $4.7 million in marketable securities, principally equity-based mutual funds, to mitigate the risk associated with the investment returns on the Company’s Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan discussed below. These marketable securities are comprised of available-for-sale securities. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company sold $3.0 million from the available-for-sale securities to fund a Corporate Owned Life Insurance Policy (“COLI”), resulting in the $1.8 million of available-for-sale securities reported. The balances are reported at fair value within Other current assets on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2018. Changes in the fair value of the securities of less than $.1 million were recognized within Other income, net within the consolidated statements of income for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018. At September 30, 2018, the cash surrender value of the COLI was $3.0 million and is recorded in Other assets on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.  
The Company has a non-qualified Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan for its executives. The liability for this unfunded Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan was $4.8 million at both September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 and is recorded within Other noncurrent liabilities on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. During January 2018, the Company amended the Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan to allow the participants the ability to hypothetically invest their proportionate award into various investment options, which primarily includes mutual funds. The company then credits earnings, gains and losses to the participants’ deferred compensation account balances based on the investments selected by the participants. The Company measures the fair value of the Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan liability using the market values of the participants’ underlying investment accounts.  
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, “Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost,” which requires that an employer report the service cost component in the same line item or items as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the pertinent employees during the period. The other components of net benefit cost are required to be presented in the income statement separately from the service cost component and outside a subtotal of income from operations, if one is presented. The Company adopted ASU 2017-07 as of January 1, 2018. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, “Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities”, which changes how companies recognize, measure, present and make disclosures about certain financial assets and financial liabilities. Under this guidance, entities have to measure certain equity investments, including available-for-sale securities, at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income. ASU 2016-01 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after 15 December 2017, and interim periods therein. The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 effective January 1, 2018. As discussed in Note I, the Company purchased $4.3 million of available-for-sale marketable securities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and in April of 2018, sold $2.9 million of the available-for-sale marketable securities to fund a Corporate Owned Life Insurance Policy (“COLI”). The Company recognized less than $0.1 million of gains related to the change in the fair value of the marketable securities within Other income, net on the Company’s consolidated statements of income. Refer to Note I “Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities” for additional details regarding the Company’s marketable securities. 
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606),” or ASU 2014-09. ASU 2014-09 requires an entity to recognize revenue in a manner that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. To achieve that core principle, the amendment provides five steps that an entity should apply when recognizing revenue. The amendment also specifies the accounting of some costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer and expands the disclosure requirements around contracts with customers. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14 deferring the effective date of the amendment to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods therein.  


item2.txt
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947. We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries. Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires. We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures. PLPC is respected around the world for quality, dependability and market-leading customer service. Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets. We have 27 sales and manufacturing operations in 18 different countries. 
The segment managers responsible for each region report directly to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, and are accountable for the financial results and performance of their entire segment for which they are responsible. The business components within each segment are managed to maximize the results of the entire operating segment and Company rather than the results of any individual business component of the segment. 
The operating results for the three months ended September 30, 2018 are compared to the same period in 2017. Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 of $108.4 million increased $9.2 million, or 9.2%, compared to 2017. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit decreased to 30.9% in 2018 from 33.8% in 2017. Gross profit for both three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was $33.5 million. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, gross profit increased $1.4 million, or 4.2%, compared to 2017. Costs and expenses of $25.5 million increased $1.8 million compared to 2017, including a favorable impact from currency translation of $1.9 million. Operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $8.0 million, a decrease of $1.8 million compared to 2017. Net income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 of $9.1 million increased $2.8 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017. The effect of currency translation had favorable impacts on operating income of $.5 million and net income of $.3 million, respectively. 
The operating results for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 are compared to the same period in 2017. Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $315.5 million increased $34.1 million, or 12.1%, compared to the same period in 2017. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit increased to 31.8% in 2018 from 31.2% in 2017. Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $100.2 million increased $12.3 million, or 14.0%, compared to 2017. Excluding the unfavorable impact of currency translation, gross profit increased $13.4 million, or 15.3%, compared to 2017. Costs and expenses of $75.1 million increased $5.6 million compared to 2017 which included a favorable impact from currency translation of $1.5 million. Operating income for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $25.1 million, an increase of $6.7 million compared to 2017. Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $21.3 million increased $9.4 million compared to the same period in 2017. The effect of currency translation had favorable impacts on operating income of $.5 million net income of $.3 million. 
Despite the constant changes in the current global economy, we believe our business fundamentals and our financial position are sound and that we are strategically well-positioned. We remain focused on assessing our business structure, global facilities and overall capacity in conjunction with the requirements of local manufacturing in the markets that we serve. If necessary, we will modify redundant processes and utilize our global manufacturing network to manage costs, increase sales volumes and deliver value to our customers. We have continued to invest in the business to improve efficiency, develop new products, increase our capacity and become an even stronger supplier to our customers. We currently have a bank debt to equity ratio of 15.4% and can borrow needed funds at a competitive interest rate under our credit facility. 
The year-over-year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $6.0 million, or 15%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales. International net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 experienced an unfavorable impact of $4.3 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of net sales excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net sales of $14.7 million decreased $.7 million, or 4%, primarily due to a volume decrease in energy and communication product sales. EMEA net sales of $18.3 million increased $3.4 million, or 22%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales within the region. In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $29.3 million increased $4.7 million, or 18%, compared to 2017 primarily due to a sales volume increase in the energy, communication and special industries products. 
PLP-USA gross profit of $16.3 million increased $1.2 million compared to the same period in 2017 as a result of increased sales volume combined with a product sales mix shift to higher margin products. International gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was unfavorably impacted by $1.5 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of gross profit excludes the effects of currency translation. The Americas gross profit decrease of $.3 million was primarily the result of the sales decrease of $.7 million combined with product margin decline in the region due to sales mix and increases in raw material costs. EMEA gross profit decreased $.4 million mainly as a result of as product mix shift toward lower margin products. Asia-Pacific gross profit increased $.9 million primarily as a result of a year-over-year increase in sales and a sales mix shift to higher margin products. 
PLP-USA costs and expenses of $11.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $.5 million, or 4%, compared to 2017 mainly due to $.6 million of higher personnel related expenses, which includes benefits, and a net year-over-year loss on foreign currency exchange of $.1 million, partially offset by lower professional fee expenses of $.2 million. Foreign currency exchange gains and losses are primarily related to translating into U.S. dollars its foreign denominated loans, trade and royalty receivables from its foreign subsidiaries at the September 30, 2018 exchange rates. On a consolidated basis, costs and expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were favorably impacted by $1.9 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of costs and expenses excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas costs and expenses of $4.3 million increased $2.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to higher salary related expense of $.5 million combined with higher loss on transactions conducted in foreign currencies of $2.0 million. EMEA costs and expenses of $3.7 million increased $.4 million mainly due to an increase in personnel related expenses. Asia-Pacific costs and expenses of $5.7 million increased $.3 million. This increase was primarily due to increased salary related expenses of $.3 million and higher commission expense of $.2 million, partially offset by lower bad debt expense of $.2 million. 
PLP-USA’s net income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $4.3 million compared to the same period in 2017 due to an increase in operating income of $.7 million and a decrease in income taxes of $3.6 million due to a benefit in the current period resulting from the Tax Act. The following discussion of net income excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net income decreased $1.7 million as a result of a $2.8 million decrease in operating income, partially offset by lower income taxes of $1.1 million. EMEA net income decreased $.5 million as a result of a $.8 million decrease in operating income offset by a $.3 million year-over-year decrease in income tax expense. Asia-Pacific net income increased $.4 million as a result of a $.1 million increase in operating income combined with a decrease in income tax expense of $.3 million. 
The year-over-year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $15.2 million, or 13%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales. International net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 experienced an unfavorable impact of $1.2 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of net sales excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net sales of $52.2 million increased $5.7 million, or 11%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy and communication product sales. EMEA net sales of $54.8 million increased $5.1 million, or 11%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales in the region. In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $80.2 million increased $9.4 million, or 13%, compared to 2017 primarily due to a sales volume increase in energy, communication and special industries products. 
PLP-USA gross profit of $45.0 million increased $7.4 million compared to the same period in 2017 as a result of higher sales volume combined with a product sales mix shift to higher margin products, primarily in energy products. International gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was unfavorably impacted by $1.1 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of gross profit excludes the effects of currency translation. The Americas gross profit increase of $4.6 million was primarily the result of the sales increase of $5.7 million combined with product margin improvement in the region due to sales mix. EMEA gross profit increased $.1 million year over year mainly as a result of the $5.1 million increase in sales. Asia-Pacific gross profit increased $1.3 million predominantly due to the region’s $9.4 million increase in sales. 


item3.txt
Effective July 1, 2018, Argentina was designated as a highly inflationary economy as the projected three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeded 100%. As such, beginning July 1, 2018, the functional currency for the Company’s Argentina subsidiary became the U.S. dollar. The impact to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was immaterial. Revenue from operations in Argentina was less than or equal to 2% of total consolidated net sales for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018. 


item4.txt
The Company’s Principal Executive Officer and Principal Accounting Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) or Rule 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, were effective as of September 30, 2018. 


part2.txt
The Company and its subsidiaries, Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the (“Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”). 
There were no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 9, 2018. 


