item1.txt
Net sales include products and shipping and handling charges, net of estimates for product returns. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products. All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies the performance obligations under the contract and control of the product is transferred to the customer, primarily based on shipping terms. Revenue for shipping and handling charges are recognized at the time the products are shipped to, delivered to or picked up by the customer. The Company estimates product returns based on historical return rates.  
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $28.2 million at March 31, 2019 and $29.5 million at December 31, 2018. An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time. Accordingly, interim LIFO calculations are based on management’s estimates of expected year-end inventory levels and costs. Because these estimates are subject to change and may be different than the actual inventory levels and costs at the end of the year, interim results are subject to the final year-end LIFO inventory valuation. During the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.3 million and $.2 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes. 
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period. Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented. 
For the three-month period ended March 31, 2019, no stock options were excluded in the calculation of diluted earnings per share as there was no anti-dilutive effect. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2018, 12,000 stock options, were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the effect would have been anti-dilutive.  
The Company’s measurement date for its annual impairment test for goodwill is October 1st of each year. The Company performs its annual impairment test for goodwill utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology, market comparables, and an overall market capitalization reasonableness test in computing fair value by reporting unit. The Company then compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value to assess if goodwill has been impaired. Based on the assumptions as to growth, discount rates and the weighting used for each respective valuation methodology, results of the valuations could be significantly different. However, the Company believes that the methodologies and weightings used are reasonable and result in appropriate fair values of the reporting units. The Company’s valuation method uses Level 3 inputs under the fair value hierarchy. 
The Company maintains an equity award program to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining, and motivating officers, employees and directors and to provide an incentive to those individuals to increase shareholder value through long-term incentives directly linked to the Company’s performance. Under the Preformed Line Products Company Long Term Incentive Plan of 2008 (the “LTIP”), certain employees, officers, and directors were eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and restricted share units (RSUs). The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the LTIP was 900,000, of which 800,000 common shares were reserved for RSUs and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options. The LTIP was terminated and replaced with the Preformed Line Products Company 2016 Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) in May 2016 upon approval by the Company’s Shareholders at the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 10, 2016. No further awards will be made under the LTIP and previously granted awards remain outstanding in accordance with their terms. Under the Incentive Plan, certain employees, officers, and directors will be eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and RSUs. The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the Incentive Plan is 1,000,000 of which 900,000 common shares have been reserved for restricted share awards and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options. The Incentive Plan expires on May 10, 2026. 
For time-based RSUs, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award in General and administrative expense in the accompanying Statements of Consolidated Income. Compensation expense related to the time-based RSUs for both three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $.1 million. As of March 31, 2019, there was $.9 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to time-based RSUs that is expected to be recognized over the weighted-average remaining period of approximately 2.1 years. 
The Company utilizes the Black-Scholes option pricing model for estimating fair values of options. The Black-Scholes model requires assumptions regarding the volatility of the Company’s stock, the expected life of the stock award and the Company’s dividend yield. The Company utilizes historical data in determining these assumptions. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. zero coupon Treasury yield in effect at the time of grant. 
For both three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded compensation expense related to the stock options currently vested of less than $.1 million. The total compensation cost related to nonvested awards not yet recognized at March 31, 2019 is expected to be $.1 million over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.4 years. 
The Company maintains a trust, commonly referred to as a rabbi trust, in connection with the Company’s deferred compensation plan. This plan allows for two deferrals. First, Directors make elective deferrals of Director fees payable and held in the rabbi trust. The deferred compensation plan allows the Directors to elect to receive Director fees in common shares of the Company at a later date instead of fees paid each quarter in cash. Second, this plan allows certain Company employees to defer restricted shares or RSUs for future distribution in the form of common shares. Assets of the rabbi trust are consolidated, and the value of the Company’s common shares held in the rabbi trust is classified in Shareholders’ equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock. The Company recognizes the original amount of the deferred compensation (fair value of the deferred stock award at the date of grant) as the basis for recognition in common shares issued to the rabbi trust. Changes in the fair value of amounts owed to certain employees or Directors are not recognized as the Company’s deferred compensation plan does not permit diversification and must be settled by the delivery of a fixed number of the Company’s common shares. As of March 31, 2019, 270,335 shares have been deferred and are being held in the rabbi trust. 
The Company has a non-qualified Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan for its executives. The liability for this unfunded Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan was $5.3 million at March 31, 2019 and $4.9 million at December 31, 2018. These amounts are recorded within Other noncurrent liabilities on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. During January 2018, the Company amended the Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan to allow the participants the ability to hypothetically invest their proportionate award into various investment options, which primarily includes mutual funds. The Company credits earnings, gains and losses to the participants’ deferred compensation account balances based on the investments selected by the participants. The Company measures the fair value of the Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan liability using the market values of the participants’ underlying investment accounts. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” The amendments in this update require the recognition of assets and liabilities arising from lease transactions on the balance sheet and the disclosure of key information about leasing arrangements. Accordingly, a lessee will recognize a lease asset for its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability for the corresponding lease obligation for leases classified as operating leases under previous guidance. Both the asset and liability will initially be measured at the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term. Subsequent measurement, including the presentation of expenses and cash flows, will depend on the classification of the lease as either a finance or an operating lease. Initial costs directly attributable to negotiating and arranging the lease will be included in the asset. For leases with a term of 12 months or less, the lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset to not recognize an asset and corresponding liability. The lessee is also required to provide additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. These disclosures are intended to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements and provide additional information about the nature of an organization’s leasing activities.  
This ASU was applied using a modified retrospective adoption method with the option of applying the guidance either retrospectively to each prior comparative reporting period presented or retrospectively at the beginning of the period of adoption, effective January 1, 2019. The Company applied the transitional package of practical expedients allowed by the standard to not reassess the identification, classification and initial direct costs of leases commencing before this ASU's effective date, however, the Company did not elect the hindsight transitional practical expedient. The Company also applied the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components to new leases as well as existing leases through transition. The Company also elected the practical expedient allowed under “Leases (Topic 842)” to exclude leases with a term of twelve months or less form the calculation of the lease liabilities and right-of-use assets.  
The Company has finalized its policy elections, the discount rate used, data and business processes and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard. The adoption of this ASU resulted in recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding current and long-term lease obligations, on a discounted basis, of its lease obligations of $10.4 million on the Company’s balance sheet. Refer to Note Q “Leases” for additional details regarding the Company’s leases. The adoption of ASU 842 did not have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or debt covenants.  
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13 “Disclosure Framework – Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement,” which will modify the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements in Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement, including the removal of certain disclosure requirements. The amendments in ASU 2018-13 are effective for all entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. An entity is permitted to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of the ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until the effective date. The Company is currently evaluating what impact its adoption, effective January 1, 2020, will have to the presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  
On March 13, 2018, the Company extended the term on its $65 million credit facility from June 30, 2019 to June 30, 2021. All other terms remain the same, including the interest rate at LIBOR plus 1.125% unless its funded debt to Earnings before Interest, Taxes and Depreciation ratio exceeds 2.25 to 1, at which point the LIBOR spread becomes 1.500%. At March 31, 2019, the Company’s Polish subsidiary had borrowed $.9 million U.S. dollars at a rate of 1.125% plus the Warsaw Interbank Offer Rate with a term expiring June 30, 2021. At March 31, 2019, the Company’s Australian subsidiary had borrowed $6.4 million U.S. dollars, also with a term expiring June 30, 2021. At March 31, 2019, the interest rates on the U.S., Polish and Australian line of credit agreement were 3.620%, 2.765% and 2.975%, respectively. Under the credit facility, at March 31, 2019, the Company had utilized $31.3 million with $33.7 million available under the line of credit, net of long-term outstanding letters of credit. The line of credit agreement contains, among other provisions, requirements for maintaining levels of net worth and profitability. At March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.  
On February 28, 2019, the Company acquired SubCon Electrical Fittings GmbH (“SubCon”), headquartered in Dornbirn, Austria. The Company’s Austrian subsidiary has a line of credit with a term expiration of May 31, 2019 with the option to renew for an additional twelve months indefinitely. At March 31, 2019, the Company’s Austrian subsidiary had borrowed its full capacity on the line of credit at $1.0 million euros, or $1.1 million U.S. dollars, at an interest rate of 2.000%.  
The Company adopted guidance effective in ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)” on January 1, 2019. Adoption of this guidance did not change the Company’s balance sheet or income statement recognition of finance leases. As a result of adopting this guidance, the Company recorded short and long-term lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets related to its operating leases.  
The Company regularly enters into leases in the normal course of business. As of March 31, 2019, the leases in effect were related to land, buildings, vehicles, office equipment and other production equipment under operating leases with lease terms of up to 99 years. The Company often has the option to renew lease terms for buildings and other assets. The exercise of lease renewal options are generally at the Company’s sole discretion. In addition, certain lease arrangements may be terminated prior to their original expiration date at the Company’s discretion. The Company evaluates renewal and termination options at the lease commencement date to determine if the Company is reasonably certain to exercise the option on the basis of economic factors. The weighted average remaining lease term for the Company’s operating and financing leases as of March 31, 2019 was 18.9 and 3.0 years, respectively. 


item2.txt
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947. We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries. Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires. We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures. PLPC is respected around the world for quality, dependability and market-leading customer service. Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets. We have 27 sales and manufacturing operations in 19 different countries. 
The operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2019 are compared to the same period in 2018. Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $97.2 million decreased $1.0 million, or 1.0%, compared to 2018. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit decreased to 28.1% in 2019 from 32.1% in 2018. Gross profit for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $27.3 million and $31.5 million, respectively. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, gross profit decreased $2.8 million, or 9.0%, compared to 2018. Costs and expenses of $25.2 million increased $1.4 million compared to 2018, which includes a favorable impact from currency translation of $1.7 million. Operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $2.0 million, a decrease of $5.7 million when compared to 2018. Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 of $1.8 million decreased $3.7 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The effect of currency translation had favorable impacts on operating income of $.3 million and net income of $.2 million, respectively. 
Despite the constant changes in the current global economy, we believe our business fundamentals and our financial position are sound and that we are strategically well-positioned. We remain focused on assessing our business structure, global facilities and overall capacity in conjunction with the requirements of local manufacturing in the markets that we serve. If necessary, we will modify redundant processes and utilize our global manufacturing network to manage costs, increase sales volumes and deliver value to our customers. We have continued to invest in the business to improve efficiency, develop new products, increase our capacity and become an even stronger supplier to our customers. We currently have a bank debt to equity ratio of 20.4% and can borrow needed funds at a competitive interest rate under our credit facility. 
The year-over-year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $2.0 million, or 5%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales. International net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 experienced an unfavorable impact of $4.8 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of net sales excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net sales of $13.8 million decreased $3.5 million, or 18%, primarily due to a volume decrease in energy and communication product sales. EMEA net sales of $15.6 million increased $2.1 million, or 14%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales within the region. In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $26.3 million increased $3.3 million, or 14%, compared to 2018 primarily due to a sales volume increase in the energy and special industries products. 
PLP-USA costs and expenses of $12.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.3 million, or 11%, compared to 2018 mainly due to increased professional fees of $.7 million, higher bad debt expense of $.4 million, higher personnel related expenses including benefits of $.2 million, a $.2 million reduction in net foreign currency exchange gains and miscellaneous net increases in expenses of $.2 million. Lower commission expense of $.4 million partially offset the year-over-year increase in U.S. cost and expenses. Foreign currency exchange gains and losses are primarily related to translating into U.S. dollars its foreign denominated loans, trade and royalty receivables from its foreign subsidiaries at the March 31, 2019 exchange rates. On a consolidated basis, costs and expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were favorably impacted by $1.7 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of costs and expenses excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas costs and expenses of $3.0 million increased $.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to a $.3 million net loss on foreign currency transactional exchange, higher salary related expense of $.1 million combined with increased professional fees of $.1 million. EMEA costs and expenses of $4.1 million increased $.6 million mainly due to an increase in personnel related expenses of $.3 million, higher professional fees of $.1 million and a $.1 million incremental loss in net foreign currency exchange effect. Asia-Pacific costs and expenses of $5.7 million increased $.8 million. This increase was primarily due to increased personnel related expenses of $.3 million, higher commission expense of $.1 million, increased combined travel and advertising expense of $.1 million, increased bad debt expense of $.1 million along with combined increases in various expenses of $.2 million. 
PLP-USA’s net income for the three months ended March 31. 2019 decreased $1.8 million compared to the same period in 2018 due to a decrease in operating income of $2.7 million, partially offset by a decrease in income taxes of $.9 million due to a tax benefit recorded in the current period. The following discussion of net income excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net income decreased $2.4 million as a result of a $3.7 million decrease in operating income, partially offset by lower income taxes of $1.3 million. EMEA net income increased $.2 million mainly as a result of a $.2 million year-over-year decrease in income tax expense as EMEA’s operating income was flat year-over year at $.6 million. Asia-Pacific net income increased $.1 million as a result of a $.4 million increase in operating income partially offset by an increase in income tax expense of $.3 million. 
Our investments include expenditures required for equipment and facilities as well as expenditures in support of our strategic initiatives. During the first three months of 2019, we used cash of $2.4 million for capital expenditures. We ended the first three months of 2019 with $43.8 million of cash, and cash equivalents and restricted cash (“Cash”). Our Cash is held in various locations throughout the world. At March 31, 2019, the majority of our Cash was held outside the U.S. We expect most accumulated non-U.S. Cash balances will remain outside of the U.S. and that we will meet U.S. liquidity needs through future cash flows, use of U.S. Cash balances, external borrowings, or some combination of these sources. We complete comprehensive reviews of our significant customers and their creditworthiness by analyzing financial statements for customers where we have identified a measure of increased risk. We closely monitor payments and developments which may signal possible customer credit issues. We currently have not identified any potential material impact on our liquidity from customer credit issues. 


item3.txt
Effective July 1, 2018, Argentina was designated as a highly inflationary economy as the projected three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeded 100%. As such, beginning July 1, 2018, the functional currency for the Company’s Argentina subsidiary became the U.S. dollar. The remeasurement impact to the three months ended March 31, 2019 was immaterial and is included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 


item4.txt
On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” For the adoption, the Company implemented changes to its lease recognition process and control activities, including the development of new entity-wide policies, processes, including the use of a software package, controls, training and ongoing lease contract reviews to accommodate presentation and disclosure requirements. For more detail regarding the January 1, 2019 adoption of ASU No. 2016-02, refer to Note Q “Leases” and Note K “Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements.” 


part2.txt
The Company and its subsidiaries, Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply, “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the (“Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”). 
There were no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 8, 2019. 


