item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Preformed Line Products Company and subsidiaries (the “Company” or “PLPC”) have been prepared in accordance with United States of America (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. 
Noncontrolling interests are presented in the Company’s consolidated financial statements as if parent company investors (controlling interests) and other minority investors (noncontrolling interests) in partially-owned subsidiaries have similar economic interests in a single entity. As a result, investments in noncontrolling interests are reported as equity in our consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the Company’s consolidated financial statements include 100% of a controlled subsidiary’s earnings, rather than only its share. Transactions between the parent company and noncontrolling interests are reported in equity as transactions between stockholders, provided that these transactions do not create a change in control. 
Net sales include products and shipping and handling charges, net of estimates for product returns. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products. All revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies the performance obligations under the contract and control of the product is transferred to the customer, primarily based on shipping terms. Revenue for shipping and handling charges are recognized at the time the products are shipped to, delivered to or picked up by the customer. The Company estimates product returns based on historical return rates.  
Cost of inventories for certain material is determined using the last-in-first-out (LIFO) method and totaled approximately $30.3 million at September 30, 2019 and $29.5 million at December 31, 2018. An actual valuation of inventories under the LIFO method can be made only at the end of the year based on the inventory levels and costs at that time. Accordingly, interim LIFO calculations are based on management’s estimates of expected year-end inventory levels and costs. Because these estimates are subject to change and may be different than the actual inventory levels and costs at the end of the year, interim results are subject to the final year-end LIFO inventory valuation. During the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.1 million and $.5 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes. During the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, the net change in LIFO inventories resulted in $.6 million and $1.1 million of expense, respectively, to Income before income taxes. 
The Company and its subsidiaries Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply), “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the (“Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”). 
Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing Net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for each respective period. Diluted earnings per share were calculated by dividing Net income by the weighted-average of all potentially dilutive common stock that was outstanding during the periods presented. 
For both the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, 15,000 stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as the effect would have been anti-dilutive. For both of the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, no stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as there was no anti-dilutive effect.  
The Company’s measurement date for its annual impairment test for goodwill is October 1st of each year. The Company performs its annual impairment test for goodwill utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology, market comparables, and an overall market capitalization reasonableness test in computing fair value by reporting unit. The Company then compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value to assess if goodwill has been impaired. Based on the assumptions as to growth, discount rates and the weighting used for each respective valuation methodology, results of the valuations could be significantly different. However, the Company believes that the methodologies and weightings used are reasonable and result in appropriate fair values of the reporting units. The Company’s valuation method uses Level 3 inputs under the fair value hierarchy. 
The Company maintains an equity award program to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining, and motivating officers, employees and directors and to provide an incentive to those individuals to increase shareholder value through long-term incentives directly linked to the Company’s performance. Under the Preformed Line Products Company Long Term Incentive Plan of 2008 (the “LTIP”), certain employees, officers, and directors were eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and restricted share units (RSUs). The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the LTIP was 900,000, of which 800,000 common shares were reserved for RSUs and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options. The LTIP was terminated and replaced with the Preformed Line Products Company 2016 Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) in May 2016 upon approval by the Company’s Shareholders at the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 10, 2016. No further awards will be made under the LTIP and previously granted awards remain outstanding in accordance with their terms. Under the Incentive Plan, certain employees, officers, and directors will be eligible to receive awards of options, restricted shares and RSUs. The total number of Company common shares reserved for awards under the Incentive Plan is 1,000,000 of which 900,000 common shares have been reserved for restricted share awards and 100,000 common shares have been reserved for share options. The Incentive Plan expires on May 10, 2026. 
For the performance-based RSUs, the number of RSUs in which the participants will vest depends on the Company’s level of performance measured by growth in either operating or pre-tax income and sales growth over a requisite performance period. Depending on the extent to which the performance criterions are satisfied under the LTIP and the Incentive Plan, the participants are eligible to earn common shares over the vesting period. Performance-based compensation expense for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 was $1.2 million and $2.9 million, respectively. Performance-based compensation expense for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 was $1.3 million and $2.7 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2019, the remaining compensation expense of $4.8 million for outstanding performance-based RSU’s is expected to be recognized over a period of approximately 1.7 years. 
The Company utilizes the Black-Scholes option pricing model for estimating fair values of options. The Black-Scholes model requires assumptions regarding the volatility of the Company’s stock, the expected life of the stock award and the Company’s dividend yield. The Company utilizes historical data in determining these assumptions. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. zero coupon Treasury yield in effect at the time of grant. 
For the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, the Company recorded compensation expense related to the stock options currently vested of less than $.1 million and $.1 million, respectively. For both three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018, the Company recorded compensation expense related to the stock options currently vested of less than $.1 million. The total compensation cost related to nonvested awards not yet recognized at September 30, 2019 is expected to be less than $.1 million over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.9 years. 
The Company maintains a trust, commonly referred to as a rabbi trust, in connection with the Company’s deferred compensation plan. This plan allows for two deferrals. First, Directors make elective deferrals of Director fees payable and held in the rabbi trust. The deferred compensation plan allows the Directors to elect to receive Director fees in common shares of the Company at a later date instead of fees paid each quarter in cash. Second, this plan allows certain Company employees to defer restricted shares or RSUs for future distribution in the form of common shares. Assets of the rabbi trust are consolidated, and the value of the Company’s common shares held in the rabbi trust is classified in Shareholders’ equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock. The Company recognizes the original amount of the deferred compensation (fair value of the deferred stock award at the date of grant) as the basis for recognition in common shares issued to the rabbi trust. Changes in the fair value of amounts owed to certain employees or Directors are not recognized as the Company’s deferred compensation plan does not permit diversification and must be settled by the delivery of a fixed number of the Company’s common shares. As of September 30, 2019, 267,641 shares have been deferred and are being held in the rabbi trust. 
The Company has a non-qualified Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan for its executives. The liability for this unfunded Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan was $5.3 million at September 30, 2019 and $4.9 million at December 31, 2018. These amounts are recorded within Other noncurrent liabilities on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. During January 2018, the Company amended the Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan to allow the participants the ability to hypothetically invest their proportionate award into various investment options, which primarily includes mutual funds. The Company credits earnings, gains and losses to the participants’ deferred compensation account balances based on the investments selected by the participants. The Company measures the fair value of the Supplemental Profit Sharing Plan liability using the market values of the participants’ underlying investment accounts. 
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” The amendments in this update require the recognition of assets and liabilities arising from lease transactions on the balance sheet and the disclosure of key information about leasing arrangements. Accordingly, a lessee will recognize a lease asset for its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability for the corresponding lease obligation for leases classified as operating leases under previous guidance. Both the asset and liability will initially be measured at the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term. Subsequent measurement, including the presentation of expenses and cash flows, will depend on the classification of the lease as either a finance or an operating lease. Initial costs directly attributable to negotiating and arranging the lease will be included in the asset. For leases with a term of 12 months or less, the lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset to not recognize an asset and corresponding liability. The lessee is also required to provide additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. These disclosures are intended to supplement the amounts recorded in the financial statements and provide additional information about the nature of an organization’s leasing activities.  
This ASU was applied using a modified retrospective adoption method with the option of applying the guidance either retrospectively to each prior comparative reporting period presented or retrospectively at the beginning of the period of adoption, effective January 1, 2019. The Company applied the transitional package of practical expedients allowed by the standard to not reassess the identification, classification and initial direct costs of leases commencing before this ASU's effective date, however, the Company did not elect the hindsight transitional practical expedient. The Company also applied the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components to new leases as well as existing leases through transition. The Company also elected the practical expedient allowed under “Leases (Topic 842)” to exclude leases with a term of twelve months or less form the calculation of the lease liabilities and right-of-use assets.  
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Disclosure Framework – Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement,” which will modify the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements in Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement, including the removal of certain disclosure requirements. The amendments in ASU 2018-13 are effective for all entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. An entity is permitted to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of the ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until the effective date. The Company is currently evaluating what impact its adoption, effective January 1, 2020, will have to the presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  


item2.txt
Preformed Line Products Company (the “Company”, “PLPC”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Ohio in 1947. We are an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication), and other similar industries. Our primary products support, protect, connect, terminate, and secure cables and wires. We also provide solar hardware systems, mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications, and fiber optic and copper splice closures. PLPC is respected around the world for quality, dependability and market-leading customer service. Our goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture, and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets. We have 28 sales and manufacturing operations in 20 different countries. 
The operating results for the three months ended September 30, 2019 are compared to the same period in 2018. Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 of $119.2 million increased $10.8 million, or 10%, compared to 2018. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit increased to 33.0% in 2019 from 30.9% in 2018. Gross profit for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $39.3 million and $33.5 million, respectively. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, gross profit increased $6.9 million, or 21%, compared to 2018. Costs and expenses of $27.7 million increased $2.2 million compared to 2018 and included a favorable impact from currency translation of $1.1 million. Operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $11.6 million, an increase of $3.6 million compared to 2018. Net income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 of $8.0 million decreased $1.1 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018. The effect of currency translation had virtually no impact on operating income or net income. 
The operating results for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 are compared to the same period in 2018. Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of $331.2 million increased $15.7 million, or 5%, compared to the same period in 2018. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit decreased to 31.5% in 2019 from 31.8% in 2018. Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of $104.4 million increased $4.2 million, or 4%, compared to 2018. Excluding the unfavorable impact of currency translation, gross profit increased $8.2 million, or 8%, compared to 2018. Costs and expenses of $79.6 million increased $4.5 million compared to 2018 and included a favorable impact from currency translation of $3.7 million. Operating income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $24.8 million, a decrease of $.3 million compared to 2018. Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 of $17.7 million decreased $3.6 million compared to the same period in 2018. The effect of currency translation had unfavorable impacts on operating income and net income of $.3 million and $.2 million, respectively. 
Despite the constant changes in the current global economy, we believe our business fundamentals and our financial position are sound and that we are strategically well-positioned. We remain focused on assessing our business structure, global facilities and overall capacity in conjunction with the requirements of local manufacturing in the markets that we serve. If necessary, we will modify redundant processes and utilize our global manufacturing network to manage costs, increase sales volumes and deliver value to our customers. We have continued to invest in the business to expand into new markets for the Company, improve efficiency, develop new products, increase our capacity and become an even stronger supplier to our customers. We currently have a bank debt to equity ratio of 24.3% and can borrow needed funds at a competitive interest rate under our credit facility. 
The year-over-year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $1.4 million, or 3%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales. International net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 experienced an unfavorable impact of $3.3 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of net sales excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net sales of $19.7 million increased $6.4 million, or 44%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy and communications product sales. EMEA net sales of $21.1 million increased $3.8 million, or 21%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy and communications product sales within the region, including incremental sales from the newly acquired businesses. In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $30.8 million increased $2.4 million, or 8%, compared to 2018 primarily due to a combined volume increase in the energy, communications and special industries products. 
PLP-USA gross profit of $17.7 million increased $1.4 million compared to the same period in 2018 as a result of increased sales volume combined with a product sales mix shift to higher margin product. International gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was unfavorably impacted by $1.1 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of gross profit excludes the effects of currency translation. The Americas gross profit increase of $2.5 million was primarily the result of a $6.3 million increase in sales combined with a product margin improvement in the region due to sales product mix. EMEA gross profit increased $2.4 million, mainly as a result of increased sales volume. Asia-Pacific gross profit increased $.7 million primarily as a result of a year-over-year increase in sales combined with a sales mix shift to higher margin products. 
PLP-USA costs and expenses of $12.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased $1.1 million compared to 2018 mainly due to $.3 million of higher personnel-related expenses, a net increase in foreign currency exchange losses of $.3 million, $.2 million of increased professional fees combined with a net $.2 million of higher year-over-year miscellaneous expenses. Foreign currency exchange gains and losses are primarily related to translating into U.S. dollars its foreign denominated loans, trade and royalty receivables from its foreign subsidiaries at the September 30, 2019 exchange rates. On a consolidated basis, costs and expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2019 were favorably impacted by $1.1 million when local currencies were translated to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of costs and expenses excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas costs and expenses of $3.7 million increased $.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to a $.1 million increase in personnel-related expenses. EMEA costs and expenses of $5.4 million increased $1.9 million mainly due to incremental costs incurred with our acquired businesses. Asia-Pacific costs and expenses of $5.8 million increased $.3 million. This increase was primarily due to an increase in commission expense of $.2 million along with net higher various combined expenses of $.1 million. 
PLP-USA’s net income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased $3.0 million compared to the same period in 2018. While operating income increased $.3 million, it was completely offset by an increase in income taxes of $3.3 million primarily due to a prior year, non-recurring, favorable adjustment resulting from the Tax Act. The following discussion of net income excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net income increased $1.6 million as a result of a $2.3 million increase in operating income, partially offset by higher income taxes of $.7 million. EMEA net income increased $.1 million as a result of a $.4 million increase in operating income, partially offset by a $.3 million year-over-year increase in income tax expense. Asia-Pacific net income increased $.1 million due to a $.4 million increase in operating income, partially offset by an increase in income tax expense of $.3 million. 
The year-over-year increase in PLP-USA net sales of $7.1 million, or 6%, was primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales. International net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 experienced an unfavorable impact of $12.7 million when local currencies were converted to U.S. dollars. The following discussion of net sales excludes the effect of currency translation. The Americas net sales of $51.1 million increased $4.4 million, or 8%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy and communications product sales. EMEA net sales of $59.4 million increased $8.5 million, or 16%, primarily due to a volume increase in energy product sales within the region. In Asia-Pacific, net sales of $85.3 million increased $8.3 million, or 10%, compared to 2018 primarily due to a volume increase in energy and special industries products. 


item3.txt
Effective July 1, 2018, Argentina was designated as a highly inflationary economy as the projected three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeded 100%. As such, beginning July 1, 2018, the functional currency for the Company’s Argentina subsidiary became the U.S. dollar. The remeasurement impact to the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 was immaterial and is included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 


item4.txt
On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” For the adoption, the Company implemented changes to its lease recognition process and control activities, including the development of new entity-wide policies, processes, including the use of a software package, controls, training and ongoing lease contract reviews to accommodate presentation and disclosure requirements. For more detail regarding the January 1, 2019 adoption of ASU No. 2016-02, refer to Note Q “Leases” and Note K “Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements.” 


part2.txt
The Company and its subsidiaries, Helix Uniformed Ltd. (“Helix”) and Preformed Line Products (Canada) Limited (“PLPC Canada”), were each named, jointly and severally, with each of SNC-Lavalin ATP, Inc. (“SNC ATP”), HD Supply Canada Inc., by its trade names HD Supply Power Solutions and HD Supply Utilities (“HD Supply”), and Anixter Power Solutions Canada Inc. (the corporate successor to HD Supply), “Anixter” and, together with the Company, PLPC Canada, Helix, SNC ATP and HD Supply, the (“Defendants”) in a complaint filed by Altalink, L.P. (the “Plaintiff”) in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta in Alberta, Canada in November 2016 (the “Complaint”). 
There were no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 8, 2019. 


