fls.txt
Forward-looking statements are based on our management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management.


item1.txt
The January 28, 2018 consolidated balance sheet was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018, as filed with the SEC, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
The results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period.
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates.
We measure progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each project.
Customers may purchase either perpetual licenses or subscriptions to licenses, which differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software.
Software licenses are frequently sold along with post contract customer support, or PCS.
Revenue from software licenses is recognized up front when the software is made available to the customer.
PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies, in all industries.
Refer to Note 2 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
The update will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
Upon adoption, we recognized the cumulative effect of the new standard as an increase to opening retained earnings of $7 million, net of tax.
The impact of applying the new standard on our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended April 29, 2018 was not significant.
Refer to Note 15 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information, including disaggregated revenue disclosures.
The Convertible Notes have a dilutive impact on net income per share if our average stock price for the reporting period exceeds the adjusted conversion price of $20.0296 per share.


item2.txt
We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI.
We adopted the new accounting standard for revenue recognition in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the modified retrospective approach.
The impact of adopting the new revenue standard was not significant to our consolidated financial statements in the first quarter.
Gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was 64.5%, increasing from the prior year and the previous quarter due to strong growth in datacenter revenue and the mix within our GeForce gaming GPUs.
Net income and net income per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 were $1.24 billion and $1.98, respectively, up 145% and 151%, respectively, from a year earlier, fueled by strong revenue growth and improved gross and operating margins.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we announced NVIDIA RTX, a computer graphics technology that produces movie-quality images in real time.
Refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure regarding segment information.
GPU business revenue increased by 77% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Our PC OEM revenue increased by over 320% due primarily to strong demand for GPU products targeted for use in cryptocurrency mining.
Tegra Processor Business.
Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 33% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018.
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.


