In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments except as otherwise noted, considered necessary for a fair statement of results of operations and financial position have been included.
The results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers.
As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed.
Software licenses are frequently sold along with post-contract customer support, or PCS.
PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies, in all industries.This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI.
Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 increased 21% year over year and increased 2% sequentially.
OEM and IP revenue was $148 million, down 23% from a year ago, due to the absence of cryptocurrency mining.
Gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 was 60.4%.
Income from operations for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $1.06 billion, up 18% from a year earlier and down 9% sequentially.
Net income and net income per diluted share for the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 were $1.23 billion and $1.97, respectively, up 47% and 48%, respectively, from a year earlier, fueled by strong revenue growth and improved gross margin.Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.