fls.txt
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.


item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of results of operations and financial position have been included.
The results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period.
We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception.
Operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 months are included in operating lease assets, accrued and other current liabilities, and long-term operating lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet.
Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted using our incremental borrowing rate.
Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives.
We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities.
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
other contingencies.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases under which lease assets and liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet.
The standard will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements.


item2.txt
We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI.
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.
The year-on-year decrease primarily reflects a decline in shipments of SOC modules for gaming platforms.
We believe a shortage of Intel processors that is impacting the global PC market will affect our sales of gaming GPUs for laptops in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020.
The year-on-year decrease is primarily due to the absence of $289 million from CMP sales.
The sequential decrease reflects U.S. tax reform benefits recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
As previously communicated, we intend to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, we returned $97 million in quarterly cash dividends.
The increase was primarily related to operating income and changes in working capital.
If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.
Refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure regarding segment information.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income expressed as a percentage of revenue.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.
As of April 28, 2019, we were authorized to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $7.24 billion through December 2022.


