fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments except as otherwise noted, considered necessary for a fair statement of results of operations and financial position have been included.
The results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers.
As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed.
Software licenses are frequently sold along with post contract customer support, or PCS.
PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.
Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies, in all industries.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016 and July 2018, the FASB issued accounting standards updates regarding the accounting for leases by which we will begin recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for lease terms of more than 12 months.
We are evaluating the impact of adopting the new lease accounting standards on our consolidated financial statements, systems and processes in conjunction with our review of lease agreements.
The Convertible Notes have a dilutive impact on net income per share if our average stock price for the reporting period exceeds the adjusted conversion price of $20.02 per share.
We recognized income tax expense of $79 million and $146 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively, and $101 million and $130 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2018, respectively.


item2.txt
We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI.
Gross margin for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 was 63.3%.
Income from operations for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $1.16 billion, up 68% from a year earlier and down 11% sequentially.
Net income and net income per diluted share for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 were $1.10 billion and $1.76, respectively, up 89% and 91%, respectively, from a year earlier, fueled by strong revenue growth and improved gross and operating margins.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $7.94 billion as of July 29, 2018, compared with $7.30 billion at the end of the prior quarter.
The sequential increase was primarily related to second quarter operating income, partially offset by changes in working capital.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we announced NVIDIA RTX, a computer graphics technology that produces movie-quality images in real time.
Refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure regarding segment information.
GPU business revenue increased by 40% for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Tegra Processor Business.
Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 40% for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018.
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.


