Item 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
All statements in this report, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statements of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products or services, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing.
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are based upon reasonable assumptions at the time made, there can be no assurance that any such expectations or any forward-looking statement will prove to be correct.
Our actual results will vary, and may vary materially, from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements.
Future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which we cannot predict with accuracy and some of which we might not anticipate, including, without limitation, product recalls and product liability claims; infringement of our technology or assertion that our technology infringes the rights of other parties; termination of supplier relationships, or failure of suppliers to perform; inability to successfully manage growth; delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or the failure to maintain such approvals; concentration of our revenue among a few customers, products or procedures; development of new products and technology that could render our products obsolete; market acceptance of new products; introduction of products in a timely fashion; price and product competition, availability of labor and materials, cost increases, and fluctuations in and obsolescence of inventory; volatility of the market price of our common stock; foreign currency fluctuations; changes in key personnel; work stoppage or transportation risks; integration of business acquisitions; and other factors referred to in our reports filed with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
Additional factors that may have a direct bearing on our operating results are discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 

BUSINESS OVERVIEW 

ClearOne is a global market leader enabling conferencing, collaboration, and network streaming solutions.
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we were awarded four more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile and echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we continued our serious litigation efforts to stop infringement of two of our strategic patents.
We introduced a new ceiling microphone array product line and made improvements to our VIEW Pro and Converge Pro 2 product lines.
We have also been focusing on company wide cost cutting programs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to surpass our competitors.
Overall revenue declined in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 56% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 from 57% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Gross profit margin decrease was primarily due to increase in inventory obsolescence costs and decline in licensing revenues.
Industry conditions 

We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The industry is also characterized by the influx of venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies keen to win market share even at the expense of mounting financial losses.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Economic conditions, challenges and risks 

The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
Our competitors vary within each product category.
The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with our Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents.
The patent infringement has also affected revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones and ceiling microphones.
Our revenues in the near term may also be adversely affected by the resignation of a large US distributor in June 2018.
Our strength in professional audio visual space is largely due to our industry leading conferencing technologies and the full suite of professional microphone products, especially Beamforming Microphone Arrays.
Despite our strong leadership position in the professional audio communications products market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market.
Revenue from our video products in the overall revenue mix has been improving on the back of a strong growth for our video products in 2016 that had continued in 2017.
We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance based media collaboration product and our high-end audio conferencing technology to provide growth in revenue in the near future.
We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware based video conferencing systems to software based video conferencing applications.
We derive a large portion of our revenue (about 49%) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future.
Most of our revenue from outside the U.S. is billed in US Dollars and is not exposed to any significant currency risk.
A detailed discussion of our results of operations follows below.
Results of Operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 




MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Revenue 

Our revenue decreased by $4.4 million, or 38%, to $7.3 million in 2018-Q1 compared to $11.7 million in 2017-Q1.
All product categories witnessed revenue declines with revenue declines of 43%, 23% and 20% for professional audio conferencing, unified communication end points and video products, respectively.
The decline in revenue from professional audio conferencing products was mostly due to slower adoption of our Converge Pro 2 platform, largely caused by our competitors’ product offering that we believe directly infringes our strategic patents and due to a decline in licensing revenue.
The share of professional audio communications products (which includes microphone products but not premium products) in our product mix declined from 74% in 2017-Q1 to 68% in 2018-Q1.
Share of video products in the revenue increased from 14% in 2017-Q1 to 18% in 2018-Q1 and share of UC end points in the revenue increased from 12% in 2017-Q1 to 14% in 2018-Q1.
During 2018-Q1, revenue declined across all regions except Canada and Australia.
The revenue declines for Asia Pacific including Middle East, Europe and Africa, and Americas were 28%, 16% and 44%, respectively.
Costs of Goods Sold and Gross Profit 

Cost of goods sold (“COGS”) includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the manufacture of our products (including material and direct labor), our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses.
Our gross profit for 2018-Q1 was approximately $4.1 million or 56% compared to approximately $6.7 million, or 57%, for 2017-Q1.
Gross margin for 2018-Q1 declined due to increased inventory obsolescence costs and the decline in licensing revenues.
Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional audio conferencing products.
We hold long-term inventory and if we are unable to sell our long-term inventory, our profitability might be affected by inventory write-offs and price mark-downs.
Operating Expenses 









MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Other income (expense), net 

Other income (expense), net, includes interest income, interest expense, and foreign currency changes.
Other income reduced in 2018-Q1 due to reduction in interest income caused by decline in the investment holdings and due to higher realized losses on liquidated investments.
Provision for income taxes 

During 2018-Q1, we accrued income taxes at the forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 27.0% as compared to the forecasted effective tax rate of 30.9% used during 2017-Q1.
The 3.9% decrease in the forecasted effective tax rate was primarily due to a reduction in corporate tax rates as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, offset by a decrease in forecasted full-year income.
In addition, a discrete tax expense of $62 thousand is primarily attributable to changes in income tax reserves related to an income tax audit in Hong Kong.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

As of March 31, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $5.6 million with no material change from December 31, 2017.
Our working capital was $24.9 million and $23.3 million as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, a decrease of cash used of approximately $1.1 million from $1.4 million of cash used in operating activities in the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash inflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $2.9 million partially offset by an increase in net loss by $1.4 million and a decrease in non-cash charges of $0.4 million.
Net cash provided by investing activities was $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to net cash flows used by investing activities of $0.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase in cash provided of $1.8 million.
The increase was primarily due to a decrease in net purchases of marketable securities of approximately $3.0 million, partially offset by $1.3 million in capitalization of patent defense costs.
Capitalization of patent defense costs.
We capitalize external legal costs incurred in the defense of our patents when we believe that a significant, discernible increase in value will result from the defense and a successful outcome of the legal action is probable.
When we capitalize patent defense costs we amortize the costs over the remaining estimated useful life of the patent, which is 15 to 17 years.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 we spent $1.3 million of legal costs related to the defense of our patents and capitalized the entire amount.
Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $0.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, which consisted of cash outflows of $0.6 million on repurchase and cancellation of stock and $0.1 million for dividend payments.
Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $1.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2017, which consisted of cash outflows of $0.9 million on repurchase and cancellation of stock and stock options and $0.4 million for dividend payments.
We are currently pursuing all available legal remedies to defend our strategic patents from infringement.
We have already spent about $5.1 million from 2016 through March 31, 2018 towards this litigation and may be required to spend more to continue our legal defense.
We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing the share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures.
In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels.
We also believe that the measures taken by us will yield higher revenues in the future.
We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans.
We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs.
In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth.
At March 31, 2018, we had open purchase orders related to our electronics manufacturing service providers of approximately $3.0 million, primarily related to inventory purchases.
At March 31, 2018, we had inventory totaling $23.2 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $8.6 million.
This compares to total inventories of $24.7 million and non-current inventory of $8.7 million as of December 31, 2017.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

We have no off-balance-sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial conditions, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources, results of operations or liquidity.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial position are based upon our unaudited consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis.
We believe certain of our accounting policies are critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations.
Except with respect to our revenue recognition practices included in Note 1.
“Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, there have been no changes to the critical accounting policies as explained in our 2017 Form 10-K.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of March 31, 2018 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.
Based upon this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable assurance level as of March 31, 2018 due to the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as described below.
Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.
The remediation plan will include an assessment of personnel levels and responsibilities, additional training of financial reporting personnel and ability to handle new requirements and projects on a timely basis with respect to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and public company reporting requirements and timelines.
The material weakness will be fully remediated when, in the opinion of management, the control processes have been operating for a sufficient period of time to provide reasonable assurance as to their effectiveness.
The remediation and ultimate resolution of the material weakness will be reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Except as noted above, there has been no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2018, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

There have been no material developments in the legal proceedings described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Item 1A.
RISK FACTORS 

There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
Item 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 




On March 1, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company renewed and extended the repurchase program for up to an additional $10 million of common stock over the next twelve months.
In connection with the repurchase extension authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors.
The transactions effectuated to date occurred in open market purchases.
Upon expiry of this repurchase program in March 2018, the program was not renewed again.
