item1.txt
We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
We recognize revenue from third-party service contracts as either gross sales or net sales depending on whether the Company is acting as a principal party to the transaction or simply acting as an agent or broker based on control and timing.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Under gross sales recognition, the entire selling price is recorded in revenue and our cost to the third-party service provider or vendor is recorded in cost of goods sold.
Under net sales recognition, the cost to the third-party service provider or vendor is recorded as a reduction to revenue resulting in net sales equal to the gross profit on the transaction.
Third-party service contracts are sold in different combinations with hardware, software, and services.
third-party services contracts are a single performance obligation in each sale.
When the Company is an agent, revenue is typically recorded at a point in time.
When the Company is the principal, revenue is recognized over the contract term.
Professional services are considered a series of distinct services that form one performance obligation and revenue is recognized over time as services are performed.
Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract.
Certain managed services contracts include financing of hardware and software.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on date of customer shipment.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping.
Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
HPP segment revenue is derived from the sale of integrated hardware and software, maintenance, and other services through the Multicomputer and Myricom product lines.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
Financing revenue is recorded in revenue as equipment leasing and is part of the Company's central operations.
The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
When product and services are sold together, the allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation is calculated using a budgeted cost-plus margin approach.
For items sold separately, including hardware, software, professional services, maintenance contracts, other services, and third-party service contracts, there is no allocation performed as there is one performance obligation.
When the Company has performed work but does not have an unconditional right to payment, a contract asset is recorded.
When the Company has the right to bill a customer, accounts receivable is recorded as an unconditional right exists.
Current contract assets were $646 thousand and $1.2 million as of December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
There were no non-current contract assets as of December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018.
Contract assets that became unconditional during the period ended December 31, 2018 and reclassified as a receivable were $918 thousand.
Contract liabilities arise when payment is received before the Company transfers a good or service to the customer.
Current contract liabilities were $738 thousand and $1.1 million as of December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
There were no non-current contract liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
Revenue recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 that was included in contract liabilities as of the beginning of the period was $1.6 million.
Most of the Company’s contracts are less than one year.
As a practical expedient, the Company has elected not to adjust the amount of consideration for effects of a significant financing component when it is anticipated the promised good or service will be transferred and the subsequent payment will be one year or less.
The Company elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that have an original expected duration of one year or less.
The Company has certain contracts that have an original term of more than one year.
The royalty agreement is longer than one year and managed service contracts are longer than one year.
For these contracts the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the performance obligations that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied as of December 31, 2018 is $6.3 million.
This revenue is expected to be recognized over 5 years and relates mainly to managed service contracts.
The following table lists customers from which the Company derived revenues in excess of 10% of total revenues from continuing operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018, and 2017.
December 31, 2018, but did not account for revenue of 10% or more for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Accounts receivable from Customer B totaled approximately $2.0 million, or 12%, and approximately $0.2 million, or 2%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
We believe that the Company is not exposed to any significant credit risk with respect to the accounts receivable with these customers as of December 31, 2018.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
The standard outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within a contract are satisfied.
The new standard was adopted by the Company effective October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach only to contracts that were not completed as of adoption date.
Additionally, revenue from software sales is no longer being deferred under ASC 606 as recognition is now when control transfers to the customer.
This ASU is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Beginning October 1, 2018, the Company adopted the ASU and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires the seller and buyer to recognize at the transaction date the current and deferred income tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers (except transfers of inventory).
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017.
Beginning October 1, 2018, the Company adopted the ASU and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
This ASU should be applied retrospectively for the presentation of the service cost component and the other components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the income statement and prospectively, on and after the effective date, for the capitalization of the service cost component of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit in assets.
Beginning October 1, 2018, the Company adopted the ASU and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-07, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
Under this ASU companies will no longer be required to value non-employee awards differently from employee awards, but the accounting remains different for attribution and a contractual term election for valuing nonemployee equity share options.
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018-07 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
No income taxes were provided as the transaction was a tax-free exchange in the U.K. As such, Modcomp GmbH's results have been recorded as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.


item2.txt
Our revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million, or 14%, to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in overall revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior fiscal year three month period was substantially the result of an approximately $2.8 million increase in our TS segment revenue, partially offset by an approximately $0.4 million decrease in our HPP segment revenue.
The TS segment revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 was primarily impacted by the fulfillment of several large product orders in the U.S. division and increased volume in services revenue, which was partially offset by the reduction of sales from a major customer in the U.K. division.
The HPP segment revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 was primarily impacted by lower royalties recognized by approximately $0.5 million on high-speed processing boards during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three month period ended December 31, 2017.
Our operating income decreased by approximately $150 thousand resulting in operating income of $15 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to operating income of $165 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of increased selling and marketing expenses and increased engineering expenses for the three month period ended December 31, 2018.
Our income tax expense decreased by approximately $1.2 million to an income tax expense of $2 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Our total revenues increased by approximately $2.4 million to $19.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $16.6 million of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in HPP product revenues for the period of $0.1 million was primarily the result of an increase of approximately $0.4 million in Multicomputer product line shipments, partially due to shipments of parts related to the E2D program, partially offset by a decrease in Myricom product line shipments of $0.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The decrease in HPP services revenues of $0.6 million for the period was primarily the result of a decrease of approximately $0.5 million in royalty revenues on high-speed processing boards related to the E2D program during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in TS segment product revenues of $1.9 million during the period was primarily the result of an increase in product revenues of $2.7 million in our U.S. division, partially offset by a decrease in product revenues of $0.8 million in our U.K division.
The $2.7 million increase in the U.S. division product revenues was primarily the result of several completed large product orders and the $0.8 million decrease in the U.K. was due to the reduction of sales from one major customer.
The $2.4 million increase in total revenues is primarily attributed to a $2.8 million increase by our TS segment partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease by our HPP segment.
The $4.2 million increase in the Americas revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017 is primarily due to 
increased revenues by our TS segment of approximately $4.7 million, partially offset by decreased sales by our HPP segment of approximately $0.3 million.
The $1.8 million decrease in Europe revenue is primarily due to decreased sales by our TS segment for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior fiscal year period.
The slight $30 thousand decrease in Asia is primarily the result of decreased product sales by our HPP segment to a customer of approximately $51 thousand, partially offset by increased sales by our TS segment of $21 thousand.
The increased engineering and development expenses for the three month period ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three month period ended December 31, 2017 is primarily attributed to an increase in engineering headcount related expenses.
The increase to other income (expenses) for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017 was primarily driven by the net change of approximately $75 thousand in the foreign exchange gain (loss) on foreign currency holdings combined with an increase in interest income of approximately $51 thousand, partially offset by a decrease in other income of approximately $73 thousand.
Income tax expense was $2 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to income tax expense of $1.1 million in the same period of 2017 due primary to enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The income tax expense for quarter ended December 31, 2018 was due to the FIN 48 tax expense.
Our significant uses of cash for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included an increase in accounts receivable of $4.1 million, an increase in other current assets of $0.7 million, and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $0.3 million.


item4.txt
company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2018, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.


