item1.txt
Finished goods includes inventory that has been shipped, but for which all revenue recognition criteria has not been met, of approximately $0.1 million and $0.4 million as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Total inventory balances in the table above are shown net of reserves for obsolescence of approximately $3.2 million and $3.1 million as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
During the first quarter ended December 31, 2017, the Company recognized a provision for income taxes of $1.1 million that includes a provisional estimate in the amount of $649 thousand related to the one-time deemed repatriation transition tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings.
The Company continues to gather and analyze information, including historical adjustments to earnings and profits of foreign subsidiaries, in order to complete the accounting for the effects of the estimated transition tax.
The Company has also recorded a provisional estimate for a one-time tax expense of $490 thousand which consists primarily of the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities from 34% to 21%.
In the U.S., the Company provides benefits through supplemental retirement plans to certain former employees.
The domestic supplemental retirement plans have life insurance policies which are not plan assets but were purchased by the Company as a vehicle to fund the costs of the plan.
Domestically, the Company also provides for officer death benefits through post-retirement plans to certain officers.
The Company's pension plan in the United Kingdom is the only plan with plan assets.
The following table lists customers from which the Company derived revenues in excess of 10% of total revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2017, and 2016.
In addition, accounts receivable from Customer A totaled approximately $1.0 million, or 5%, and approximately $2.4 million, or 9%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Accounts receivable from Customer B totaled approximately $3.3 million, or 16%, and approximately $3.9 million, or 14%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Accounts receivable from customer C totaled approximately $2.8 million, or 13%, of consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.
Accounts receivable from customer D totaled approximately $2.3 million, or 11%, of consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.
We believe that the Company is not exposed to any significant credit risk with respect to the accounts receivable with these customers as of December 31, 2017.
No other customers accounted for 10% or more of total consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.
On December 19, 2017, the Company's board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.11 per share which was paid on January 16, 2018 to shareholders of record as of December 29, 2017, the record date.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
The new standard is effective for the Company on October 1, 2018, and it does not plan to early adopt this ASU.
We are utilizing a bottom-up approach to analyze the standard's impact on our contract portfolio, comparing our historical accounting policies and practices, and identifying potential differences from applying the requirements of the new standard to our contracts.
While this assessment continues, we have not yet completed our determination of the impacts of the standard or the effect of these impacts on our consolidated financial statements.
In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330) Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, which requires entities to measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value, except for inventory measured using last-in, first-out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and requires prospective application, with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period.
The Company has not yet assessed the potential impact of implementing this ASU on our consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and lease liability for most lease arrangements.
The new standard is effective for the Company on October 1, 2019.
The standard mandates a modified retrospective transition method for all entities and early adoption is permitted.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08 (Topic 606), Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) to clarify the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations.
The amendments in this update provides additional guidance on indicators to assist an entity in determining whether it controls a specified good or service before it is transferred to the customer and does not change the core principle of previously issued guidance.
The amendments in this Topic are effective for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods.
The Company does not expect the implementation of this ASU to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
If an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires the seller and buyer to recognize at the transaction date the current and deferred income tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers (except transfers of inventory).
Under current GAAP, the seller and buyer defer the consolidated tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer from the period of the transfer to a future period when the asset is transferred out of the consolidated group, or otherwise affects consolidated earnings.
This standard will cause volatility in companies’ effective tax rates, particularly for those that transfer intangible assets to foreign subsidiaries.
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017.
An entity may early adopt the standard but only at the beginning of an annual period for which it has not issued or made available for issuance financial statements (interim or annual).
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-16 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
ASU 2017-01 provides a framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities is a business.
ASU 2017-01 is effective for interim and annual periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact ASU 2017-01 will have on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and disclosures.
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period.
Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual period for which financial statements (interim or annual) have not been issued or made available for issuance.
This ASU should be applied retrospectively for the presentation of the service cost component and the other components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the income statement and prospectively, on and after the effective date, for the capitalization of the service cost component of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit in assets.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2017-07 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.


item2.txt
Our revenues increased by approximately $2.1 million, or 10%, to $22.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to $19.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016.
The increase in revenue is the result of an increase of $2.4 million in our TS segment, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in our HPP segment.
Our gross margin percentage increased overall, from 22% of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2016, to 23% for the three months ended December 31, 2017 due in part to an increase in higher margin TS segment service revenues.
Operating income increased by $0.1 million from an operating loss of $102 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2016 to operating income of $7 thousand for the three month period ended December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of a $681 thousand increase in gross profit partially offset by an increase of $572 thousand in higher operating expenses.
The increase in operating expenses was primarily the result of higher variable compensation costs, combined with increased costs for sales and engineering hires in our U.S and Germany divisions of the TS segment.
Our income tax expense increased by approximately $1.1 million to $1.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to an income tax benefit of $15 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2016.
The increase to the income tax expense was primarily due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which was enacted on December 22, 2017.
Our revenues increased by approximately $2.1 million to $22.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to $19.9 million of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2016.
The TS segment revenues increase of $2.4 million was partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in our HPP segment.
The decrease in HPP services revenues is primarily attributed to a $329 thousand decrease in royalties on high-speed processing boards related to the E2D program shipped for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016.
The increase in TS segment product revenues of $0.9 million during the period was primarily the result of an increase in product revenues of $1.8 million in our U.K. division, partially offset by decreases of $0.8 million and $0.1 million in our U.S and German divisions, respectively.
The $1.8 million increase in the U.K. segment product revenues was primarily the result of increased product shipments to a major customer.
The increase in TS segment service revenues of $1.4 million during the period was primarily the result of increases of $1.0 million, $0.3 million and $0.1 million of our U.S., German and U.K.
The $2.1 million increase in revenues is primarily attributed to increased revenues by our TS segment.
The $1.8 million increase in revenue to Europe is primarily the result of increased sales by our TS segment U.K. division to U.S. division multi-national customer.
The overall TS segment gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 19% for the three month period ended December 31, 2017 from 16% for the three month period ended December 31, 2016.
The overall TS segment gross margin as a percentage of sales increase was primarily due to an 8% increase in service margins as a percentage of TS segment revenues, which is substantially due to having improved margins in our U.K. and Germany divisions.
The engineering and development expenses incurred by our HPP segment were $0.7 million and $0.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The increased engineering and development expenses for the three month period ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the three month period ended December 31, 2016 is primarily attributed to an increase in engineering headcount related expenses.
The net change to other income (expenses) of $149 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016, was primarily driven by the net change of approximately $(147) thousand in the foreign exchange gain (loss) on foreign currency holdings in the current period as compared to the prior year period.
The Company has made reasonable estimates of the impact of the Tax Act and, in accordance with the SEC's Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, has recorded a provisional net income tax expense of approximately $1.1 million for the period ended December 31, 2017.
The Company has included a provisional estimate in the amount of $649 thousand related to the one-time deemed repatriation transition tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings in the quarter ended December 31, 2017.
Significant sources of cash for the three months ended December 31, 2017 included a decrease in accounts receivable of $7.4 million, an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $2.0 million, a decrease in deferred tax assets of $0.5 million, and an increase in income taxes payable of $0.4 million.
Significant uses of cash for the three months ended December 31, 2017 included an increase in other current assets of $1.9 million, an increase in inventories of $1.3 million, an increase in deferred costs of $1.2 million, a net loss of $1.2 million, and a decrease in deferred revenues of $0.7 million.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2017, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective, due to the fact that we are not yet able to conclude that the material weakness described below in this Item 4 has been remediated by the changes we made in response to that material weakness.
We determined that controls over the revenue recognition process were not operating effectively and the resulting control gap amounted to a material weakness in our controls over financial reporting.
During the periods following our initial identification of the material weakness referred to above, management assessed various alternatives to remediate this material weakness and we implemented changes to our system of internal controls, which included the implementation of enhanced internal auditing procedures, whereby revenue transactions are subjected to an additional review process at the corporate level to ensure the correct accounting methodology is applied to all revenue transactions.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, management continued to take additional actions to upgrade our international accounting staff and improved accounting operations in our European divisions.


item4.txt
The Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2017.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2017, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective, due to the fact that we are not yet able to conclude that the material weakness described below in this Item 4 has been remediated by the changes we made in response to that material weakness.
During the periods following our initial identification of the material weakness referred to above, management assessed various alternatives to remediate this material weakness and we implemented changes to our system of internal controls, which included the implementation of enhanced internal auditing procedures, whereby revenue transactions are subjected to an additional review process at the corporate level to ensure the correct accounting methodology is applied to all revenue transactions.
Although we have implemented such changes to our internal controls over financial reporting as described above, at this time, we cannot conclude that the material weakness has been remediated and we will continue to make personnel changes and upgrade systems and processes throughout fiscal year 2018.


