Item 2.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which we refer to as the Report, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Juniper Networks, Inc., which we refer to as “we,” “us,” "Juniper," or the “Company,” that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about our business, economic and market outlook, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management.
Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “would,” “will,” “could,” “may,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, and these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.
Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Report under the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part II and elsewhere, and in other reports we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.
While forward-looking statements are based on reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.
The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP.
In the course of operating our business, we routinely make decisions as to the timing of the payment of invoices, the collection of receivables, the manufacturing and shipment of products, the fulfillment of orders, the purchase of supplies, and the building of inventory and spare parts, among other matters.
In making these decisions, we consider various factors, including contractual obligations, customer satisfaction, competition, internal and external financial targets and expectations, and financial planning objectives.
Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.
To aid in understanding our operating results for the periods covered by this Report, we have provided an executive overview, which includes a summary of our business and market environment along with a financial results and key performance metrics overview.
These sections should be read in conjunction with the more detailed discussion and analysis of our condensed consolidated financial condition and results of operations in this Item 2, our “Risk Factors” section included in Item 1A of Part II of this Report, and our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, as well as our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, or Form 10-K.
Business and Market Environment
Juniper designs, develops, and sells products and services for high-performance networks to enable customers to build scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks for their businesses, while achieving agility, efficiency and value through automation.
Further, our intent is to lead in the area of software solutions that simplify the operation of networks, and to allow our customers across our key verticals to deliver further value through their networks.
We anticipate that our increased focus on software business models will result in an increase in software revenues as a percentage of total revenues over time.
•Strategic Enterprise is now referred to as ‘Enterprise’
•Cloud remains unchanged
Types of customers included in the key verticals remain unchanged.
We are focused on and continue to see significant opportunities from the implementation of cloud architectures, such as large public and private data centers, as well as distributed cloud infrastructure, which resides in multiple, distributed data centers in order to place applications or services closer to end users, such as enabling security and "network-as-a-service."
We believe the network needs for our customers in our Service Provider, Cloud, and Enterprise verticals are converging, as these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and leveraging the cloud for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency.
As these customers continue to grow, we believe their network architectures will continue to evolve.
We believe our understanding of high performance networking technology and our strategy position us to capitalize on the industry transition to more automated, cost-efficient, scalable networks.
We believe that certain large Cloud customers are transitioning their wide area networks from a scale-up to a scale-out architecture as they continue to add capacity.
This has resulted in, and we expect this may continue to result in, a transition of these customers from purchasing our MX product family to our PTX product family.
In addition, the slow pace of deployments at certain large Cloud customers has led to a near-term slowdown in our net revenues.
Despite these ongoing architectural shifts and deployment delays, we remain confident in our competitive position and strong relationships with these strategic customers.
Our overall strategy with our Cloud customers has not changed and we continue to execute against our innovation roadmap, which includes our plan to continue to grow our relevance and our business in the Cloud vertical.
Innovations
During the third quarter of 2018, we continued to execute on our product strategy.
We announced innovations across our PTX, QFX, and MX series of products.
We believe the new technology will help Service Provider, Cloud, and Enterprise customers recalibrate network economics as they transition to 400G to lower cost-per-bit while keeping up with increasing bandwidth demands from next generation mobile network build-outs, or 5G, augmented and virtual reality, cloud, and 4K video production and distribution.
We also upgraded our services processing card (SPC3 Advanced Security Acceleration card) that can improve performance by as much as eleven times to our SRX5000 line of Services Gateways across a variety of key performance metrics, helping Service Providers, Cloud providers, and Enterprises meet the demands of multicloud; Internet of Things, or IoT; 5G; and the enterprise edge, while continuing to provide customers investment protection with their SPC2 installed base.
We also announced Contrail Edge Cloud that allows Service Providers to cost effectively deploy new services to the space and power-constrained network edge.
It virtualizes compute, storage, and networking resources efficiently and economically in lightweight edge environments such as central offices, base stations, hubs, and switching sites.
Moreover, we recently introduced our software-based Contrail Enterprise Multicloud solution, which began shipping in third quarter of 2018.
We are seeing strong customer adoption as our Enterprise customers migrate to multicloud solutions for end-to-end policy, control, and visibility.
Partnerships
In the third quarter of 2018, we also announced new and expanding partnerships with companies like Nutanix and Ericsson, which we expect will help strengthen our ability to capitalize on multicloud and 5G initiatives and drive our competitive advantage in the marketplace.
Tariffs
The United States, or U.S., government imposed a 10% tariff effective September 24, 2018, on certain goods imported from China, which affects certain products that we import.
The tariff rate is scheduled to increase to 25% on January 1, 2019.
At this time, the imposition of the 10% tariff is not expected to have a material direct impact on our fourth quarter 2018 financial results due to (1) only certain products that we import are subject to tariffs and (2) we intend to attempt to mitigate the impact of any cost increases by passing along such increases to our partners and customers.
The currently scheduled rate increase to 25% in 2019 could have a significant impact to our gross margins in the event we are unable to meaningfully mitigate the impact of the higher tariffs.
For more information on the risk factors affecting our business, see the “Risk Factors” section of Item 1A of Part II of this Report.
Financial Results and Key Performance Metrics Overview
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No.
2014-09 (Topic 606) - Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which we refer to as Topic 606.
The standard provides guidance for revenue recognition that superseded the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, which we refer to as Topic 605, and most industry specific guidance.
See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for further discussion on the adoption of Topic 606.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under Topic 605.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the adoption of Topic 606 resulted in a decrease in revenue recognition of $4.6 million and $19.5 million, respectively, due to lower service revenues, partly offset by higher product revenues.
Product revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were higher by $22.8 million and $80.7 million, respectively, under Topic 606, compared to Topic 605, primarily due to the impact of revenue allocation between products and services, timing of revenue recognition from sales to distributors, and variable consideration.
The
product revenues increase from Topic 606 was allocated among all product categories.
Service revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were lower by $27.4 million and $100.2 million, respectively, under Topic 606, compared to Topic 605, primarily due to the impact of revenue allocation between products and services, and due to certain contractual clauses.
We believe the adoption of Topic 606 will continue to impact the allocation of revenues between product and service.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions.
These estimates and assumptions are based on current facts, historical experience, and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances to determine reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, except for the change in accounting estimates related to the adoption of Topic 606 described below and changes in certain accounting policies described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, there were no other material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K.
Our estimates of SSP for each performance obligation requires judgment that considers multiple factors, including, but not limited to, historical discounting trends for products and services, pricing practices in different geographies and through different sales channels, gross margin objectives, internal costs, competitor pricing strategies, and industry technology lifecycles.
Our estimates for rights of return, rebates, and price protection are based on historical sales returns and price protection credits, specific criteria outlined in customer contracts or rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time.
Our estimates for expected penalties and other price concessions are based on historical trends and expectations regarding future incurrence.
Changes in judgments with respect to these assumptions and estimates could impact the timing or amount of revenue recognition.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, for a full description of the recently adopted accounting standards and recent accounting standards not yet adopted, including the actual and expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Results of Operations
Revenues
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017
Product net revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to a decrease in revenues from our routing products, partially offset by higher revenues from switching, driven by the impact of the adoption of Topic 606, and growth in security.
The year-over-year decrease in routing revenues was primarily due to our Cloud vertical in the Americas, and to a lesser extent, Service Provider in APAC.
The decline was partially offset by strength in Enterprise in the Americas and EMEA, and to a lesser extent, the impact of the adoption of Topic 606.
The decline in revenues from Cloud reflects the networking architectural shifts for certain large Cloud customers and a slower than expected pace of deployments.
We remain confident in our competitive position with our strategic Cloud customers; however, the pace of deployments is difficult to predict.
Enterprise benefited from a diverse base of customers and the increase in revenues was driven by demand for new solutions such as the MX 204 and MX 10003, which are contributing to our growth in new market segments.
Revenues from our PTX and MX series of products declined year-over-year.
For PTX, the decline was primarily due to the pace of deployments for certain large Cloud customers.
We believe PTX sales
will increase as incremental capacity requirements eventually drive improved demand; however, we are unable to predict the exact timing.
The increase in switching revenues during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, was driven by the impact of Topic 606.
Revenues from our EX series of products increased year-over-year.
Revenues from our QFX series of products declined year-over-year and remain under pressure due to the timing of certain large scale Cloud deployments.
Security net revenues increased year-over-year across all verticals as customers transitioned to our newer product offerings.
Service net revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to the impact of Topic 606.
Excluding the impact of Topic 606, our service net revenues would have increased year-over-year, primarily due to strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts.
As a result of Topic 606, we expect that our service net revenues will see a decrease for the full year 2018 compared to 2017.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017
Product net revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to Cloud and Service Provider, impacting routing and switching in the Americas.
The decrease in product revenues was partially offset by the impact of Topic 606 and growth in security.
The decrease in routing and switching revenues in the Americas was due to the networking architectural shifts for certain large Cloud customers and slower than expected pace of deployments, resulting in lower revenues from our MX, PTX, and QFX product families.
This was partially offset by higher revenues in EMEA, as well as strong growth in Enterprise.
We experienced growth in revenues from our security business during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, across all verticals as customers transitioned to our newer product offerings.
We expect that our security business will see year-over-year growth for the full year 2018.
Service net revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to the impact of Topic 606.
Excluding the impact of Topic 606, our service net revenues would have increased year-over-year, driven primarily by strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts.
Gross Margins
Our gross margins as a percentage of net revenues have been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the mix and average selling prices of our products and services, new product introductions and enhancements, manufacturing, component and logistics costs, expenses for inventory obsolescence and warranty obligations, cost of support and service personnel, customer mix as we continue to expand our footprint with certain strategic customers, and the mix of distribution channels through which our products and services are sold.
Additionally, our gross margins for the fourth quarter 2018 could be slightly impacted by the recently imposed China tariffs.
While we plan to continue our efforts to attempt to mitigate the impact of tariffs, the currently scheduled rate increase to 25% in 2019 could have a significant impact to our gross margins in the event we are unable to meaningfully mitigate the impact of the tariffs.
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017
Product gross margin
Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to product mix, partially offset by the impact of Topic 606.
We continue to undertake specific efforts to address certain factors impacting our product gross margin.
These efforts include performance and quality improvements through engineering to increase value across our products; optimizing our supply chain and service business; pricing management; and increasing software and solution sales; however, there can be no guarantee that these efforts will be successful or that they will be realized in the time frame we anticipate.
Service gross margin
Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues from the impact of Topic 606 and higher professional services costs to support our software deployments.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017
Product gross margin
Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to product mix, partially offset by the impact of Topic 606.
Service gross margin
Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues from the impact of Topic 606, increased professional services costs to support our software deployments, and higher service delivery costs.
Operating Expenses
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017
Subsequent to September 30, 2018, we amended the 2018 Restructuring Plan to further implement certain organizational changes resulting in a realignment of our workforce.
As a result, we expect to record severance charges of approximately $5.0 million related to headcount reductions in the fourth quarter of 2018.
Other Expense, Net
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017
Total other expense, net increased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to losses on equity investments, partially offset by an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields.
With higher interest rates, other expense, net is expected to be lower over the next few quarters.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017
Total other expense, net decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields and a higher average portfolio balance, partially offset by losses on equity investments.
Income Tax (Benefit) Provision
The effective tax rate during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 differs from the federal statutory rate of 21%, primarily due to the recognition of certain previously unrecognized tax benefits of $67.6 million, which includes interest of $8.4 million, a reduction of expected tax liabilities of $33.2 million, federal research and development credits, and a favorable change in the forecasted geographic mix of earnings.
The recognition of $67.6 million in previously unrecognized tax benefits is due to a lapse in the federal statute of limitations relative to fiscal years 2010 through 2014.
The reduction of expected tax liabilities of $33.2 million is a result of filing a change in accounting method for the tax recognition of deferred product revenue in the U.S. to better align with the financial statement recognition of such revenue.
The Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017, introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and created a minimum tax on foreign earnings.
Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in the financial statements as of December 31, 2017.
While we believe we have largely completed our analysis and related impacts of the Tax Act, we expect further guidance from revenue and taxation authorities in the fourth quarter of 2018, particularly from state authorities, which may impact the tax effects.
As a result, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts which may materially impact our provision for income taxes from continuing operations in the period in which the adjustments are made.
We will complete the accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act in the fourth quarter of 2018.
The Tax Act also includes provisions to tax Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, or GILTI, of foreign subsidiaries in excess of a deemed return on their tangible assets.
We anticipate further guidance in the form of tax regulations to be issued by the U.S. Treasury in the fourth quarter of 2018, regarding the utilization of foreign tax credits relative to GILTI.
Due to the complexities of the new provisions and the anticipated regulations referenced above, we are continuing to evaluate how the provisions will be accounted for under U.S. GAAP.
Pursuant to the Tax Act, corporations are allowed to make an accounting policy election to either (i) account for GILTI as a component of income tax expense in the period in which the corporation is subject to the rules (the “period cost method”), or (ii) account for GILTI in the corporation's measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”).
We have not currently elected a method and will do so after completing our analysis of the GILTI provisions of the Tax Act depending on the analysis of our global income.
Therefore, we have not recorded any potential deferred tax effects related to GILTI in our financial statements and has not yet made an accounting policy election regarding whether to record deferred taxes on GILTI or use the period cost method.
We have, however, included an estimate of the current GILTI impact in our annual effective tax rate for 2018.
We expect to complete the accounting during the measurement period.
As a result of recommendations by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, certain countries in EMEA and APAC have either enacted new corporate tax legislation or are considering enacting such legislation in the near future.
We expect the effect of these reform measures to potentially impact long-standing tax principles, particularly in regards to transfer pricing.
Consequently, we expect global tax authorities to increasingly challenge our cost sharing and other intercompany arrangements, and the related sourcing of taxable profits in global jurisdictions.
We are continuing to hold discussions with the UK tax authorities regarding corporate tax reform legislation enacted by the UK.
Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates.
Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items.
See Item 1A of Part II, "Risk Factors" of this Report for a description of relevant risks which may adversely affect our results.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Summary of Cash Flows
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operations decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017.
The decrease was primarily due to higher cash collections from customers during the first nine months of 2017 related to service renewals invoiced during the fourth quarter of 2016, and an increase in cash paid during 2018 for income taxes, primarily due to the first of eight annual transition tax payments related to the Tax Act.
These decreases in cash flows were partially offset by a decline in cash paid for personnel-related costs, principally as a result of a reduction in headcount and lower incentive compensation.
Investing Activities
Net cash provided by investing activities increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017.
The increase was primarily due to the liquidation of repatriated offshore investments to fund the accelerated share repurchase program discussed below.
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017.
The increase was primarily due to higher repurchases of our common stock, as a result of the accelerated share repurchase program described further below, and increases in payments of cash dividends.
Capital Return
In January 2018, our Board of Directors, which we refer to as the Board, approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, which we refer to as the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program replaces the previous authorization approved by the Board in 2014.
As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we entered into an ASR to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock.
During the first quarter of 2018, we made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 23.3 million shares of our common stock based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction.
During the third quarter of 2018, the ASR was completed and we received and retired an additional 6.0 million shares, based on volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share.
The completion of the ASR resulted in a total repurchase of 29.3 million shares of our common stock.
As of September 30, 2018, there was $1.3 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
Our 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time.
See Note 8, Equity, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for further discussion of our share purchase program.
We declared and paid cash dividends of $0.18 per share each quarter, totaling $187.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board or an authorized committee thereof.
See Note 14, Subsequent Event, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for discussion of our dividend declaration subsequent to September 30, 2018.
Revolving Credit Facility
We have an unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire in 2019, which enables borrowings of up to $500.0 million, with the option, subject to the lenders' approval, to increase the amount of the credit facility by up to an additional $200.0 million.
As of September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants and there were no amounts outstanding under our credit facility.
Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements
Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term, and long-term investments, together with cash generated from operations and access to capital markets and the revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our operations; planned stock repurchases and dividends; capital expenditures; commitments and other liquidity requirements; and anticipated growth for at least the next twelve months.
However, our future liquidity and capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned depending on many factors, including, but not limited to, our growth rate; the timing and amount we spend to support development efforts; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; the introduction of new and enhanced products and services; the costs to acquire or invest in businesses and technologies; an increase in manufacturing or component costs; and the risks and uncertainties detailed in the “Risk Factors” section of Item 1A of Part II of this Report.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers
Item 5.
Other Information
On November 5, 2018, Juniper Networks, Inc. (the “Company”) and Terrance F. Spidell, Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, agreed to amend (the “Amendment”) the original Letter Agreement, dated May 24, 2018 (the “Original Letter) to revise Mr. Spidell’s resignation date.
Under the terms of the Amendment, Mr. Spidell’s full-time employment with Juniper will end on the business day immediately following the date that Juniper’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year 2018 is filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (such date, the “Resignation Date”).
All other terms in connection with his future transition set forth in the Original Letter remain in effect as described in the Form 8-K filed on May 29, 2018.
The description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Amendment, which is attached as Exhibit 10.3, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 6.
Exhibits
 ++Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
