Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which we refer to as the Report, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Juniper Networks, Inc., which we refer to as “we,” “us,” "Juniper," or the “Company,” that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about our business, economic and market outlook, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “would,” “will,” “could,” “may,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, and these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Report under the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part II and elsewhere, and in other reports we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. While forward-looking statements are based on reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.



The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. In the course of operating our business, we routinely make decisions as to the timing of the payment of invoices, the collection of receivables, the manufacturing and shipment of products, the fulfillment of orders, the purchase of supplies, and the building of inventory and spare parts, among other matters. In making these decisions, we consider various factors, including contractual obligations, customer satisfaction, competition, internal and external financial targets and expectations, and financial planning objectives. Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.



To aid in understanding our operating results for the periods covered by this Report, we have provided an executive overview, which includes a summary of our business and market environment along with a financial results and key performance metrics overview. These sections should be read in conjunction with the more detailed discussion and analysis of our condensed consolidated financial condition and results of operations in this Item 2, our “Risk Factors” section included in Item 1A of Part II of this Report, and our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, as well as our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, or Form 10-K.



Business and Market Environment



Juniper designs, develops, and sells products and services for high-performance networks to enable customers to build scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks for their businesses, while achieving agility and improved operating efficiency through automation. 





Further, our intent is to expand our software business by introducing new software solutions to our product portfolio that simplify the operation of networks, and allow our customers across our key verticals flexibility in consumption and deployment. We believe our software and related services revenues as a percentage of total revenues will increase over time as we introduce new software solutions designed to better monetize the value of software functionality in our offerings. 



We believe the network needs for our customers in our Cloud, Service Provider, and Enterprise verticals are converging, as these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and are adopting cloud architectures for their infrastructure and service delivery, such as large public and private data centers and service provider edge data centers, for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency. 



We remain confident in our strategy and we are executing against our innovation roadmap, as each of our industry verticals transitions to cloud architectures. We believe our understanding of high-performance networking technology and cloud architecture and our strategy position us to capitalize on the industry transition to more automated, cost-efficient, scalable networks.



In the third quarter of 2019, we experienced weakness within our Service Provider vertical, which we believe is due to continued business challenges facing some of our largest Service Provider customers. We believe our relationships with our existing Service Provider customers generally remain strong and we expect Service Provider revenues to decline more modestly year-over-year in 2020 as compared to 2019. Enterprise has increased sequentially over the past two quarters driven by demand in our U.S. federal business as well as broad Enterprise strength, and we expect another sequential increase in the fourth quarter of 2019. Our Cloud vertical has returned to year-over-year growth for the past two quarters and we expect our Cloud vertical to grow in the fourth quarter of 2019 as compared to the same quarter in 2018, as we continued to see momentum within our customers' wide area networks, particularly from certain of our switching products.



Financial Results and Key Performance Metrics Overview













Of our top ten customers for the third quarter of 2019, three were in Cloud, six were in Service Provider, and one was in Enterprise. Of these customers, three were located outside of the U.S.















Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are based on current facts, historical experience, and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances to determine reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. 



During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, except for the change in accounting estimates and changes in certain accounting policies related to the adoption of Topic 842 described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, there were no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements



See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, for a full description of the recently adopted accounting standards and recent accounting standards not yet adopted, including the actual and expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Results of Operations



Revenues











Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2018



Product net revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to Service Provider and Cloud, impacting routing, partially offset by Enterprise.



Routing revenue decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in our Service Provider vertical resulting from lower net revenues from our MX product family.



Switching revenue increased during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily resulting from higher net revenues from our QFX product family in our Cloud vertical, partially offset by lower net revenues from our EX product family.



Security revenue increased during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily driven by Enterprise, and to a lesser extent, Service Provider.



Service net revenues increased slightly during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018.



Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018



Product net revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to Service Provider and Cloud, impacting routing and switching.



Routing revenue decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in our Service Provider and Cloud verticals resulting from lower net revenues from our MX product family, partially offset by Enterprise.



Switching revenue decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease, in the first half of 2019, across all verticals resulting in lower net revenues from our QFX and EX product families.



Security revenue increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily driven by Service Provider, and to a lesser extent, Enterprise.



Service net revenues increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, due to strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts.



Gross Margins







Our gross margins as a percentage of net revenues have been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the mix and average selling prices of our products and services, new product introductions and enhancements, manufacturing, component and logistics costs, expenses for inventory obsolescence and warranty obligations, cost of support and service personnel, customer mix as we continue to expand our footprint with certain strategic customers, the mix of distribution channels through which our products and services are sold, and import tariffs. For example, the United States imposed a tariff on networking products imported from China, which includes certain products that we import into and sell within the United States. For more information on the potential impact of tariffs on our business, see the “Risk Factors” section of Item 1A of Part II of this Report.



Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2018



Product gross margin



Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to higher amortization of intangible assets associated with the recent acquisition of Mist, lower revenues and to a lesser extent, China tariffs. We continue to undertake specific efforts to address certain factors impacting our product gross margin. These efforts include performance and quality improvements through engineering to increase value across our products; optimizing our supply chain and service business; pricing management; and increasing software and solution sales; however, there can be no guarantee that these efforts will be successful or that they will be realized in the time frame we anticipate.



Service gross margin 



Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues increased during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to lower service delivery costs and higher revenue.



Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018



Product gross margin



Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to higher amortization of intangible assets associated with the recent acquisition of Mist, lower revenues and to a lesser extent, China tariffs.



Service gross margin 



Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to lower service delivery costs and higher revenue.



Operating Expenses











Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2018





Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018





Other Expense, Net 











Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2018



Total other expense, net increased during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a loss on extinguishment of debt.



Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018



Total other expense, net decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields, partially offset by a loss on extinguishment of debt.



Income Tax Provision (Benefit)





The effective tax rate increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same periods in 2018, primarily due to a change in the level of discrete items in the comparative period. For further explanation of our income tax provision, see Note 13, Income Taxes, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report.



On July 24, 2018, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, or the Court, issued an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner requiring related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share expenses related to share-based compensation. On June 7, 2019, the Court upheld the cost-sharing regulations, subject to the right of appeal by Altera. On July 22, 2019, Altera petitioned the Court for rehearing. We will continue to monitor ongoing developments and potential impacts to our financial statements. If a judicial decision against Altera had been finalized in the reporting period, our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 would have been higher.



Our effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and may be adversely affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries that have lower statutory rates or higher than anticipated earnings in countries that have higher statutory rates, by the effect of U.S. income tax on certain foreign earnings and through the imposition of base-erosion prevention measures, which may limit the deduction of certain transfer pricing payments. Our effective tax rate may also fluctuate due to changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. See the "Risk Factors" section of Item 1A of Part II of this Report for a description of relevant risks which may adversely affect our results.



As a result of recommendations by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, certain countries have either enacted new corporate tax legislation or are considering enacting such legislation in the near future. We expect the effect of these reform measures to potentially impact long-standing tax principles, particularly in regard to transfer pricing. Consequently, we expect global tax authorities to increasingly challenge our cost sharing and other intercompany arrangements, and the related sourcing of taxable profits in global jurisdictions. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 







Summary of Cash Flows 







Operating Activities



Net cash provided by operations decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower cash collections from customers as a result of lower invoicing, partially offset by a decrease in cash payments to suppliers.



Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities was $704.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $730.0 million for the same period in 2018. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the payment for the acquisition of Mist was $270.9 million and net purchases of investments was $349.7 million. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net proceeds from sales, maturities and redemptions of investments was $872.4 million, primarily from the liquidation of repatriated offshore investments to fund the ASR discussed below.



Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018. The nine months ended September 30, 2019 payments were primarily comprised of $454.8 million net repayments of debt and payments of $350.0 million under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. The nine months ended September 30, 2018 payments were primarily comprised of $750.0 million under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.



Capital Return



In January 2018, our Board of Directors, which we refer to as the Board, approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, which we refer to as the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, in February 2018, we entered into an ASR to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock. We made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR to repurchase our common stock. The aggregate number of shares ultimately repurchased of 29.3 million shares of common stock was determined based on a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share.



On April 29, 2019, we entered into an ASR, to repurchase an aggregate of approximately $300.0 million of our outstanding common stock. During the second quarter of 2019, we made an up-front payment of $300.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 8.6 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $240.0 million based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction. During the third quarter of 2019, the ASR was completed, and we received and retired an additional 3.0 million shares, based on volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.79 per share. The completion of the ASR resulted in a total repurchase of 11.6 million shares of our common stock.



During the third quarter of 2019, we also repurchased 2.1 million shares of our common stock in the open market for an aggregate purchase price of $50.0 million at an average price of $23.63 per share.



As of September 30, 2019, there was approximately $900.0 million of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. 



On October 24, 2019, we announced that the Board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $1.0 billion of common stock under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. On October 28, 2019, we entered into an ASR with a financial institution to repurchase an aggregate of $200.0 million of our outstanding common stock (the “October 2019 ASR”). We made an up-front payment of $200.0 million pursuant to the October 2019 ASR and received and retired an initial 6.4 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $160.0 million based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction. We have an aggregate of $1.7 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, as of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 



Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. Our 2018 Stock Repurchase Program does not have a specified termination date, but may be discontinued at any time. See Note 10, Equity, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for further discussion of our share purchase program. 



We declared and paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per share, totaling $64.7 million and $196.4 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board or an authorized committee thereof. See Note 16, Subsequent Events, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for discussion of our dividend declaration subsequent to September 30, 2019. 



Contractual Obligations











Revolving Credit Facility



In April 2019, we entered into a new credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), with an option to increase the Revolving Credit Facility by up to an additional $200.0 million, subject to the lenders' approval. The Prior Revolving Credit Facility was terminated substantially concurrently with our entering into the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility will terminate in April 2024, subject to two one-year maturity extension options, on the terms and conditions as set forth in the credit agreement. As of September 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants in the Credit Agreement, and no amounts were outstanding.



Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements





Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term, and long-term investments, together with cash generated from operations and access to capital markets and the revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our operations; planned stock repurchases and dividends; capital expenditures; commitments and other liquidity requirements; and anticipated growth for at least the next twelve months. However, our future liquidity and capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned depending on many factors, including, but not limited to, our growth rate; the timing and amount we spend to support development efforts; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; the introduction of new and enhanced products and services; the costs to acquire or invest in businesses and technologies; an increase in manufacturing or component costs; and the risks and uncertainties detailed in the “Risk Factors” section of Item 1A of Part II of this Report.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers











As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, on April 29, 2019, we entered into an ASR to repurchase an aggregate of approximately $300.0 million of our outstanding common stock. During the second quarter of 2019, we made an up-front payment of $300.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 8.6 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $240.0 million, based on the market price of $27.94 per share of our common stock on the date of the transaction. During the third quarter of 2019, the ASR was completed and we received and retired an additional 3.0 million shares, based on volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.79 per share. The completion of the ASR resulted in a total repurchase of 11.6 million shares of our common stock.



During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the Company also repurchased 2.1 million shares of its common stock in the open market for an aggregate purchase price of $50.0 million at an average price of $23.63 per share, under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.



The shares received by us were retired, accounted for as a reduction to stockholder’s equity in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, and treated as a repurchase of common stock for purposes of calculating earnings per share. For further explanation of our ASR, see Note 10, Equity, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report.



Item 6. Exhibits









 +Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.



SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





