Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which we refer to as the Report, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Juniper Networks, Inc., which we refer to as “we,” “us,” "Juniper," or the “Company,” that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about our business, economic and market outlook, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “would,” "will," “could,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, and these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Report under the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part II and elsewhere, and in other reports we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. While forward-looking statements are based on reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.



The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. In the course of operating our business, we routinely make decisions as to the timing of the payment of invoices, the collection of receivables, the manufacturing and shipment of products, the fulfillment of orders, the purchase of supplies, and the building of inventory and spare parts, among other matters. In making these decisions, we consider various factors, including contractual obligations, customer satisfaction, competition, internal and external financial targets and expectations, and financial planning objectives. Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.



To aid in understanding our operating results for the periods covered by this Report, we have provided an executive overview, which includes a summary of our business and market environment along with a financial results and key performance metrics overview. These sections should be read in conjunction with the more detailed discussion and analysis of our condensed consolidated financial condition and results of operations in this Item 2, our “Risk Factors” section included in Item 1A of Part II of this Report, and our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, as well as our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, or Form 10-K.



Business and Market Environment



Juniper designs, develops, and sells products and services for high-performance networks to enable customers to build scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks for their businesses, while achieving agility, efficiency and value through automation. 





Further, our intent is to lead in the area of software solutions that simplify the operation of networks, and to allow our customers across our key verticals to deliver further value over their networks. We anticipate that our increased focus on software business models will result in an increase in software revenue as a percentage of total revenue over time. 







•Strategic Enterprise will now be referred to as ‘Enterprise’



•Cloud will remain unchanged 



Types of customers included in the key verticals will remain unchanged.



We are focused on and continue to see significant opportunities from the implementation of cloud architectures, such as large public and private data centers, as well as distributed cloud infrastructure which resides in multiple, distributed data centers in order to place applications or services closer to end users, such as enabling security and "network-as-a-service."



We believe the network needs for our customers in our Service Provider, Cloud and Enterprise verticals are converging, as these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and leveraging the cloud for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency. 



As these customers continue to grow, we believe their network architectures will continue to evolve. We believe our understanding of high performance networking technology, and our strategy, position us to capitalize on the industry transition to more automated, cost-efficient, scalable networks.



In routing, we believe that certain large Cloud customers are transitioning their wide area networks from scale-up to a scale-out architecture as they continue to add capacity. This has resulted in, and we expect this may continue to result in, a transition of these customers from purchasing our MX product family to our PTX product family. These architectural shifts have led to a near-term slowdown in our net revenues as in some cases there is a pause before the new architecture ramps.



In switching, we see that certain large Cloud customers who can rapidly scale based on increased demand are in the process of adopting 100-Gigabit connections, or 100G, resulting in certain large deployment delays at our largest Cloud customers as they prepare for this adoption. 



Despite these ongoing deployment delays and architectural shifts, we remain confident in our competitive position and strong relationships with these strategic customers. Our overall strategy with our Cloud customers has not changed and we continue to execute against our innovation roadmap, which includes our plan to continue to grow our relevance and our business in the Cloud vertical. 



During the first quarter of 2018, we continued to execute on our product strategy, specifically around the cloud. We introduced a new and smaller branch network services platform to combine branch security and hybrid WAN functionality with wireless 4G and LTE connectivity between branches, which can run third-party virtual network functions (VNFs). Also, we introduced new secure connectivity solutions to public clouds that combine on-boarding services with Juniper’s virtualized security and routing functions for both AWS and Azure cloud environments.





We also introduced the Juniper Metro Fabric to modernize metro service delivery for operators across multiple business use cases including cable, residential fiber, public cloud connective and mobile backhaul services. Juniper Metro Fabric incorporates a 5G-ready architecture that is designed to bring together new and existing ACX, MX and PTX series products lines that merge optical and packet into a single holistic experience to simplify and speed-up metro service delivery and optimize cost. 



Financial Results and Key Performance Metrics Overview









For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the accounting impact of adoption of Topic 606 resulted in an increase in revenue recognition by $1.9 million. Product revenue was $28.7 million higher under Topic 606, compared to Topic 605 during this quarter, primarily due to the impact of allocation of revenue between products and services, and recognition of variable consideration, partially offset by timing of recognition of revenue from sales to distributors. The product revenue increase was primarily allocated between Routing and Switching. Service revenue was $26.8 million lower under Topic 606, compared to Topic 605 this quarter, primarily due to the allocation of revenue between products and services. On a go forward basis, we do not expect a material difference in total annual revenue as a result of the adoption of Topic 606; however, we believe the adoption of Topic 606 will impact the allocation of revenue between product and service. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part 1 of this report, for further discussion on the adoption of Topic 606.















Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are based on current facts, historical experience, and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances to determine reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. 



During the three months ended March 31, 2018, except for the change in accounting estimates related to adoption of Topic 606 described below and changes in certain accounting policies described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, there were no other material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K.





Our estimates of SSP for each performance obligation requires judgment that considers multiple factors, including, but not limited to, historical discounting trends for products and services, pricing practices in different geographies and through different sales channels, gross margin objectives, internal costs, competitor pricing strategies, and industry technology lifecycles. Our estimates for rights of return, rebates, and price protection are based on historical sales returns and price protection credits, specific criteria outlined in customer contracts or rebate agreements, and other factors known at the time. Our estimates for expected penalties and other price concessions are based on historical trends and expectations regarding future incurrence. 



Changes in judgments with respect to these assumptions and estimates could impact the timing or amount of revenue recognition.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements



See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, for a full description of the recently adopted accounting standard and recent accounting standards not yet effective, including the actual and expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Results of Operations







Product net revenues decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to a decrease in revenue from routing and switching products, partially offset by the impact of adoption of Topic 606 and growth in security. 



The year-over-year decrease in routing revenue was primarily driven by Service Provider due to the timing of customer deployments, and the recognition of one-time deferred revenue of an APAC Service Provider during the first quarter of 2017 that did not occur during the same period in 2018. The decrease in routing revenue from Cloud customers was driven by ongoing architectural shifts in the Americas. Revenues from our MX and legacy product family declined year-over-year due to the timing of customer deployments, which was partially offset by growth in revenues from our PTX products. 



The decrease in switching revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily driven by Cloud. The decrease in switching revenue was partially offset by the impact of adoption of Topic 606, and Enterprise. Revenue from our QFX series of products declined year-over-year, which remain under pressure due to the timing of Cloud deployments; however, we expect that our switching business should return to year-over-year growth for the full year 2018.



Security net revenue increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, driven by all verticals. We expect that our security business will see year-over-year growth for the full year 2018.



Service net revenue decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to the impact of adoption of Topic 606. Excluding the impact of adoption of Topic 606, our service net revenue increased year-over-year, which was driven primarily by strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts. As a result of Topic 606, we expect that our service net revenue will see a decrease for the full year 2018 compared to 2017.



Gross Margins







Our gross margins as a percentage of net revenues have been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the mix and average selling prices of our products and services, new product introductions and enhancements, manufacturing and component costs, expenses for inventory obsolescence and warranty obligations, cost of support and service personnel, customer mix as we continue to expand our footprint with certain strategic customers, and the mix of distribution channels through which our products and services are sold.



Product gross margin



Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenue decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenue, customer mix, product mix, and higher costs of certain memory components. This was partially offset by improvements in our cost structure. In the near-term, we expect product gross margin to be positively affected by higher revenue volumes, but the pace of improvement will be impacted by customer mix, including the impact from our customers' architectural shifts.



Service gross margin 



Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenue and higher service delivery costs.



Operating Expenses











During the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, research and development expenses decreased primarily due to lower personnel-related expenses, specifically in salaries and wages and variable compensation, partially offset by higher share-based compensation expenses from certain performance share awards. The decrease in sales and marketing was primarily due to decreased marketing-related expenses, partially offset by personnel-related expenses. The increase in general and administrative costs were primarily due to outside accounting and consulting services. We had lower headcount during the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, driven by a restructuring plan initiated during the first quarter of 2017, which we refer to as our 2017 Restructuring Plan. We had no restructuring charges during the first quarter of 2018, nor do we anticipate any further charges under the 2017 Restructuring Plan. 



Other Expense, Net 







Total other expense, net decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields. 



Income Tax Provision





The Tax Act enacted in December 22, 2017 introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and created a minimum tax on foreign earnings. 



Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in the financial statements as of December 31, 2017. As we collect and prepare the necessary data, interpret the Tax Act and review any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, state revenue and taxation authorities and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts which may materially impact our provision for income taxes from continuing operations in the period in which the adjustments are made. The adjustments made in the first quarter of 2018 were not significant. The accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act will be completed later in 2018.



The Tax Act also includes provisions for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”), which imposes taxes on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. Because of the complexities of the new provisions, we are continuing to evaluate how the provisions will be accounted for under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Companies are allowed to make an accounting policy election of either (i) account for GILTI as a component of income tax expense in the period in which the Company is subject to the rules (the “period cost method”), or (ii) account for GILTI in the Company’s measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”). We have not elected a method and will do so after completing our analysis of the GILTI provisions of the Tax Act depending on the analysis of our global income. Therefore, we have not recorded any potential deferred tax effects related to the GILTI in our financial statements and have no policy election regarding whether to record deferred taxes on GILTI or use the period cost method. We have however, included an estimate of the current GILTI impact in our annual effective tax rate for 2018. We expect to complete the accounting during the measurement period.



Our effective tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018 differs from the statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the benefit of the federal research and development credit and foreign earnings taxed at lower rates. The rate for the period includes a discrete benefit of 4.4% primarily related to the net impact of unrecognized tax benefits.



As a result of recommendations by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, certain countries in EMEA and APAC have either enacted new corporate tax legislation or are considering enacting such legislation in the near future. We expect the effect of these reform measures to potentially impact long-standing tax principles, particularly as regards to transfer pricing. Consequently, we expect global tax authorities to increasingly challenge our cost sharing and other intercompany arrangements, and the related sourcing of taxable profits in global jurisdictions. We are continuing to hold discussions with the tax authorities, including UK and Australian, regarding corporate tax reform legislation enacted by those countries.



Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. See Item 1A of Part II, "Risk Factors" of this Report for a description of relevant risks which may adversely affect our results.



Liquidity and Capital Resources 







Summary of Cash Flows 













Operating Activities



Net cash provided by operations decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017. The decrease was primarily due to higher cash collections from customers during the first quarter of 2017 related to service renewals 



invoiced during the fourth quarter of 2016, partially offset by a decrease in cash paid for personnel-related costs, in particular as a result of a reduction in headcount and lower incentive compensation.



Investing Activities



Net cash provided by investing activities was $1,112.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $9.7 million for the same period in 2017, primarily due to the liquidation of repatriated offshore investments to fund the accelerated share repurchase program discussed below.



Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities increased during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to the payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the accelerated share repurchase program as described further below and increases in payment of cash dividends. 



Capital Return



In January 2018, our Board of Directors, which we refer to as the Board, approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, which we refer to as the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program replaces the previous authorization approved by the Board in 2014. 



As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we entered into the ASR with two financial institutions to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received an initial 23.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $600.0 million, based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction.



The total number of shares of our common stock to be ultimately received under the ASR, will be calculated using the average daily volume weighted average price of our stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement of the transactions under the ASR is expected to be completed no sooner than May 11, 2018 and no later than August 6, 2018. If the initial shares received are less than the calculated total number of shares to be ultimately received under the ASR, then the financial institution will be required to deliver additional shares of common stock to us at settlement. If, however, the initial shares received are greater than the calculated total number of shares to be ultimately received, we have the option to either issue shares of common stock or make cash payments to the financial institutions.



As of March 31, 2018, there was $1.3 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. 



Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. Our 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time. 



In addition to repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we also repurchase common stock from certain employees in connection with satisfying applicable tax withholding requirements upon the vesting of certain stock awards issued to such employees. Repurchases associated with tax withholdings were not material during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017.



During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share of common stock on January 30, 2018, which was paid on March 22, 2018 to stockholders of record on March 1, 2018 in the aggregate amount of $62.1 million. Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board of Juniper Networks or an authorized committee thereof. See Note 15, Subsequent Events, for discussion of our dividend declaration subsequent to March 31, 2018. 



Revolving Credit Facility



We have an unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire in 2019, which enables borrowings of up to $500.0 million, with the option to increase the amount of the credit facility by up to an additional $200.0 million. As of March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants and there were no amounts outstanding under our credit facility.



Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements





Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term, and long-term investments, together with cash generated from operations and access to capital markets and the revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our operations, planned stock repurchases and dividends, capital expenditures, commitments, and other liquidity requirements and anticipated growth for at least the next twelve months. However, our future liquidity and capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned depending on many factors, including, but not limited to, our growth rate, the timing and amount we spend to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced products and services, the costs to acquire or invest in businesses and technologies, and the risks and uncertainties detailed in the “Risk Factors” section of Item 1A of Part II of this Report.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers











As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we entered into the ASR in February 2018 with two financial institutions to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 23.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $600.0 million based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction. This does not represent the final number of shares to be delivered under the ASR. The remaining $150.0 million was recorded as a forward contract indexed to the price of our common stock. For further explanation of our ASR, see Note 9, Equity, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report.



Item 5. Other Information 



As previously disclosed, Vincent Molinaro, Executive Vice President and interim Chief Customer Officer of the Company, intends to step down from his role at such time as his successor has been named and is in place. Shortly thereafter, he will transition to part-time employment as an advisor to the Company for a period of up to one year. In connection with his future transition, the Company entered into a Letter Agreement, dated May 4, 2018, with Mr. Molinaro that outlines Mr. Molinaro’s responsibilities, obligations, compensation and benefits, including during the period he acts as an advisor to the Company, which we refer to as the Advisory Period. 



During the Advisory Period, Mr. Molinaro (i) will be paid a prorated portion of his base salary and will be eligible for a pro-rated portion of his annual cash bonus based on the number of hours he works, (ii) will continue to vest in his equity awards pursuant to their terms, (iii) will continue to receive standard health benefits made available to similarly situated employees, subject to satisfying eligibility requirements, and (iv) will remain subject to all Juniper policies and agreements applicable to him as an employee.



Subject to certain terms and conditions, including his continued compliance with Juniper policies and his Confidential Information and Invention Assignment Agreement and his execution of a release, Mr. Molinaro will be entitled to receive severance payments consistent with his Severance Agreement in the event he is not terminated for Cause (as defined by his Severance Agreement). Any bonus payments payable under his Severance Agreement will be prorated for the number of hours he works.



The foregoing summary of the Letter Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Letter Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.4, and is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 6. Exhibits









 ++Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.



SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





