fls.txt
The estimate of expected credit losses will require considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses.


item1.txt
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
The Company's offerings range from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2018 and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the requirements of Topic 606 utilizing the full retrospective method as discussed in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements).
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Parent and its 100% owned subsidiaries.
Except as noted above for the adoption of Topic 606, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the six months ended June 30, 2018.
The Company is a primary distribution channel for a large group of vendors and suppliers, including original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and wholesale distributors.
The Company is the principal in the transaction and recognizes revenue for drop-shipment arrangements on a gross basis.
The Company recognizes revenue from these transactions when control has passed to the customer, which is usually upon delivery of the product to the customer.
For these transactions, the Company deems that control passes to the customer when the product is ready for delivery.
The warranties are not sold separately and only provide assurance that products will conform with the manufacturer's specifications.
Revenues from most software license sales are recognized as a single performance obligation on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions at the point the software license is delivered to the customer.
The Company evaluates whether the software assurance is a separate performance obligation by assessing if the third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software itself.
If the Company determines that the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software license, the software license and the accompanying third-party delivered software assurance are recognized as a single performance obligation.


item2.txt
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, and government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
Our broad array of offerings ranges from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.
We are technology "agnostic," with a portfolio including more than 100,000 products and services from more than 1,000 leading and emerging brands.
Our solutions are delivered in physical, virtual and cloud-based environments through over 6,000 customer-facing coworkers, including sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers.
We are a leading sales channel partner for many original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and cloud providers (collectively, our "vendor partners"), whose products we sell or include in the solutions we offer.
We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access.
Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as amended ("Topic 606"), utilizing the full retrospective method as discussed in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
This is particularly the case for business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their perceptions of business conditions.
These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations.
We monitor a number of financial and non-financial measures and ratios on a regular basis in order to track the progress of our business and make adjustments as necessary.
We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per common share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable plus days of supply in Inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit and leverage ratios, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
These measures and ratios are compared to standards or objectives set by management, so that actions can be taken, as necessary, in order to achieve the standards and objectives.
In this Form 10-Q, we discuss Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, which are non-GAAP financial measures.


