fls.txt
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K.


item1.txt
The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
Companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements or to initially apply this standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020.
We expect to adopt the new lease standard on June 29, 2019 by applying the standard at the adoption date and recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The majority of our current lease arrangements are classified as operating leases under existing GAAP lease guidance, and we expect they will continue to be classified as operating leases under the new standard.
We have made progress in executing our implementation plan, including identifying our lease population.
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $14 million and $43 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $13 million and $37 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
We have a receivables sale agreement (“RSA”) with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $50 million of outstanding receivables at any given time.
From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution.
Receivables sold pursuant to the RSA meet the requirements for sales accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, and, accordingly, are derecognized from our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at the time of sale.
Impairment losses related to receivables from contracts with customers were not material during the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018.


item2.txt
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
As described in more detail in Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes, we entered into the Merger Agreement with L3 and Merger Sub on October 12, 2018, pursuant to which we and L3 have agreed to combine in an all-stock merger of equals.
We and L3 continue to expect the merger to close in the previously announced time frame of mid-calendar year 2019, although we can give no assurances regarding the timing or occurrence of closing.
The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher volume and operational efficiencies, partially offset by program and product mix.
Segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to program and product mix.
The increase in segment gross margin, decrease in segment gross margin percentage and decreases in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to the same reasons noted above regarding this segment for the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.


item3.txt
Item 3.


item4.txt



part2.txt
On March 12, 2019, the parties to the actions entered into an agreement to settle all claims that were or could have been alleged in the action subject to, among other things, the supplementation by L3 of certain disclosures contained in the registration statement, which were reflected in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by L3 with the SEC on March 13, 2019, and the dismissal of the four lawsuits, all of which were dismissed by March 18, 2019.
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K.


