This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report.As used in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (these “Notes”), the terms “Harris,” “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by Harris, without an audit, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The results for the third quarter and first three quarters of fiscal 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year or any subsequent period.
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
Reclassifications include certain human resources and information technology (“IT”) costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted an accounting standards update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
In addition, entities are required to record deferred tax balances with an offset to retained earnings for unrecognized amounts that will be recognized under this update.
We applied all changes required by this update using the modified retrospective approach from the beginning of fiscal 2018.
Adopting this update resulted in a $27 million reduction of prepaid income tax assets from the “Other current assets” and “Other non-current assets” line items and a $27 million increase in the “Non-current deferred income taxes” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) as of September 29, 2017.This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-year classifications.
Reclassifications include certain human resources and IT costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in revenue.
Segment gross margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was comparable with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 as the impact of a less favorable mix of program and product sales was offset by productivity savings.
The increase in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher employment and distribution costs.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.Item 1.