fls.txt
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K.


item1.txt
The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
Companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements or to initially apply this standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020.
We have developed a project plan to evaluate the impact of this standard and design and implement future processes, tools and controls.
During the two quarters ended December 28, 2018, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”).
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $15 million and $29 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018, respectively, and $13 million and $24 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively.
We have a receivables sale agreement (“RSA”) with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $50 million of outstanding receivables at any given time.
Receivables sold pursuant to the RSA meet the requirements for sales accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, and, accordingly, are derecognized from our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at the time of sale.
Impairment losses related to receivables from contracts with customers were not material during the quarter or two quarters ended December 28, 2018 or the quarter or two quarters ended December 29, 2017.
Contract assets include unbilled amounts typically resulting from revenue recognized exceeding amounts billed to customers for contracts utilizing the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost revenue recognition method.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
Changes in contract assets and contract liabilities balances during the quarter and two quarters ended December 28, 2018 were not materially impacted by any factors other than those described above.


item2.txt
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
The increase in segment operating income in the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and comparability of segment operating margin percentage reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018. transaction and integration costs and the timing of other expense accruals in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, partially offset by a $12 million adjustment for deferred compensation in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties (including the recent, or any potential successive, U.S. Government shutdown) and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.
Our ability to make principal payments or pay interest on or refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the defense, government and other markets we serve and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.
Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans.
Failure to satisfy the minimum funding thresholds could result in restrictions on our ability to amend the plans or make benefit payments.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
The complaints in the lawsuits contain substantially similar allegations contending, among other things, that the registration statement on Form S-4 in support of the pending merger misstates or fails to disclose certain allegedly material information in violation of federal securities laws.
Additional lawsuits in connection with the merger may be filed in the future.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K.


