Operating results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018.
2016-09 (ASU 2016-09), Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (Topic 718), which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions, including the income tax consequences and classification on the statements of cash flows.
The adoption of ASU 2016-09 resulted in the presentation of cash flows for employee taxes paid by withholding shares of restricted stock as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, which were previously presented as an operating activity.
A retrospective method of adoption was required for this change, which resulted in the reclassification of cash outflows of approximately $34 million from operating activities to financing activities within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended December 31, 2016.
In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-15 (ASU 2016-15), Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (Topic 230), which is intended to reduce diversity in practice on how certain cash receipts and cash payments are classified and presented in the statements of cash flows.The Company’s practice regarding payment of dividends may be modified at any time and from time to time.
The program does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and it may be modified or suspended at any time at the Company’s discretion.
The Company does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise required by law.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
Most of the Global Fortune 500, as well as many government agencies around the world, rely on CA to help manage their increasingly dynamic and complex environments.
•DevOps is adjacent to Agile Management and is comprised of a range of solutions that allow customers to efficiently deliver and manage applications and IT infrastructure.
With our portfolio of solutions, customers can reduce the delivery time of new applications, increase the frequency of new releases and dramatically improve quality.
Our solutions enable complete end-to-end automation, which minimizes downtime and accelerates the application delivery process.
Our solutions help to eliminate vulnerabilities during the development and deployment chain, which helps to lower cost and improve time-to-market.
•DevOps solutions help customers increase the innovation velocity for mainframe applications and teams.
We support agile development processes and modern languages, as well as tools for development, testing and deployment that support collaboration across the software development lifecycle and across mobile to mainframe teams.
With machine learning, operations teams can proactively prevent problems, fix issues faster and get more done with fewer resources.