fls.txt



item1.txt
As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented.
As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented.
As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented.
As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented.
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, creating new ASC Topic 606 (“Topic 606”) that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
2016-02 (“ASU 2016-02”), Leases (Topic 842), with amendments in 2018, requiring a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet for leases with accounting lease terms of more than 12 months.
ASU 2016-02 will replace most existing lease accounting guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the consolidated statements of operations.
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.


item2.txt
•Our Services segment helps customers reach their information technology (“IT”) and business goals primarily by enabling the rapid implementation and adoption of our software solutions.
Our segments strengthen each other in several ways.
This is critical as customers focus on their end users’ experiences on their apps and the underlying transactions that traverse their heterogeneous environments.
This hybrid cloud capability helps customers remove the barriers between ideas and business outcomes.
We are able to bidirectionally leverage our core strengths and development efforts in our products within the Enterprise Solutions segment to bring new innovations to the Mainframe Solutions segment and vice versa.
Our strong market position enables our investment in development, innovation and support of the mainframe platform to be among the largest in the industry, which sustains ongoing customer commitment to our Mainframe Solutions.
Our Services segment leverages our expertise across our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments and helps customers deploy and maintain our solutions.
Agile development utilizes an iterative work cadence with a feedback loop that decreases time-to-market, increases product quality and, most importantly, maintains a focus on generating rapid business value.
•Continuous Delivery optimizes the application development processes by automating the deployment of applications across all stages of their lifecycles.
•Automation solutions help customers transform business processes.
Our solutions help customers see application dependencies and provide intelligent analytics, comprehensive coverage, and an open, extensible architecture that improves end-user experience.
Through our acquisition of Veracode, we provide a wide range of security testing and threat mitigation techniques.
Our solution is hosted on a unified application security testing platform and integrates into existing development toolchains.
Our solutions help detect and prevent the threat of internal and external attacks leveraging both network and host-based controls for the enterprise and hybrid cloud.


item3.txt



item4.txt
The Company adopted the new revenue recognition guidance under Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.


part2.txt
Item 1.


