fls.txt



item1.txt
As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented.
As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented.
As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented.
As a result, the financial statements are not comparable to the prior period presented.
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, creating new ASC Topic 606 (“Topic 606”) that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP.
In October 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-16 (“ASU 2016-16”), Intra-Equity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory (Topic 740), which is intended to eliminate diversity in practice and provide a more accurate depiction of the tax consequences on intercompany asset transfers (excluding inventory).
2016-02 (“ASU 2016-02”), Leases (Topic 842), with amendments in 2018, requiring a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet for leases with accounting lease terms of more than 12 months.
ASU 2016-02 will replace most existing lease accounting guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the consolidated statements of operations.


item2.txt
We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise required by law.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements.
References in this Form 10-Q to fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are to our fiscal years ending on March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
To achieve this, we have built a portfolio of solutions that enable customers to leverage the benefits of agility, automation, insights and security in managing business processes and technology investments.
We believe this journey, broadly referred to as digital transformation, is fueled by software.
•Our Services segment helps customers reach their information technology (“IT”) and business goals primarily by enabling the rapid implementation and adoption of our software solutions.
Our segments strengthen each other in several ways.
•Agile Planning helps customers transform their development practices from traditional to modern agile methodologies.
•Continuous Delivery optimizes the application development processes by automating the deployment of applications across all stages of their lifecycles.
Continuous delivery is key to transforming the technical aspects of software delivery.
•Automation solutions help customers transform business processes.
•Agile Operations helps customers correlate end-user, application and infrastructure data from cloud-hosted containers to mainframes.
Our solutions help customers see application dependencies and provide intelligent analytics, comprehensive coverage, and an open, extensible architecture that improves end-user experience.
Through our acquisition of Veracode, we provide a wide range of security testing and threat mitigation techniques.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 5.


part2.txt
Item 1.


