fls.txt
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution.
The Company’s analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2018, filed with the SEC on November 15, 2018, as amended by Amendment No.
In August 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) deferred the effective date of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (“ASU 2014-09”), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance.
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (Topic 320), (“ASU 2016-13”).
This ASU requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured on the basis of amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Topic 320), (“ASU 2016-01”).
This ASU provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company will early adopt ASU 2018-07 during fiscal 2019 and does not expect it to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this ASU will result in an increase to the Company’s consolidated balance sheet for these assets and obligations.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.


item2.txt
Item 2.
We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
Our analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new applications within the aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
We market and sell our products directly to OEMs of communications and electronics products, third-party original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components distributors.
We generated net revenue of $972.0 million for the three months ended December 28, 2018, a decrease of $79.9 million or 7.6%, as compared with $1,051.9 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
The $51.7 million decrease in gross profit for the three months ended December 28, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, was primarily the result of lower average selling prices and lower unit volumes with a gross profit impact of $170.5 million.


item3.txt
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.
Our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds and marketable securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity) that total approximately $1,085.7 million and marketable securities (U.S. Treasury and government securities, corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $13.4 million and $2.7 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of December 28, 2018.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.


