fls.txt
Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Financial Statements.
Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution.
The Company’s highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No.
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
The second quarters of fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks and ended on March 30, 2018, and March 31, 2017, respectively.
As a result of adoption, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $22.5 million to the income tax provision for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards for the six months ended March 30, 2018.
The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $22.5 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018.
The change in accounting for forfeitures was applied using a modified retrospective transition method and resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $1.9 million.
of 2018 and applied it prospectively, as permitted by the standard.
The adoption of this standard did not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
We will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and currently expect to apply the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance.
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230), (“ASU 2016-15”).
We are currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.


item2.txt
We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made.
We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution.
This increase in revenue was primarily driven by our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve, the increasing number of applications for the Internet of Things, and our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, industrial, medical and military.
We generated net revenue of $913.4 million for the three months ended March 30, 2018, an increase of $61.7 million or 7.2%, as compared with $851.7 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
Net revenue increased by 11.3% or $199.3 million to $1,965.3 million for the six months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with $1,766.0 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017.
This increase in net revenue for the three and six months ended March 30, 2018, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from a key smartphone customer as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, offset by decreases in average selling prices.
Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical of the semiconductor industry.
The $33.3 million increase in gross profit for the three months ended March 30, 2018, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix, lower per-unit materials and manufacturing costs and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $72.5 million.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
We are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below.


item4.txt
Controls and Procedures.


part2.txt
The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights.
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.


