fls.txt
The forward-looking information may include, among other information, statements concerning our outlook for fiscal year 2020, overall volume and pricing trends, cost reduction and acquisition strategies and their anticipated results, and expectations for research and development and capital expenditures.
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.
Forward-looking statements should be read in context with, and with the understanding of, the various other disclosures concerning the Company and its business made elsewhere in this quarterly report as well as other public reports filed by the Company with the SEC.
We do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained in this quarterly report to reflect new events or circumstances unless and to the extent required by applicable law.


item1.txt
The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2019.
During the three and six month periods ended  September 30, 2019, there were no significant changes to any critical accounting policies or to the methodology used in determining estimates including those related to investment securities, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, property and equipment, and contingencies.
During the six month period ended  September 30, 2019, goodwill increased by $10,896 due to the purchase of Chengdu OK New Energy ("COKNE") and was partially offset by foreign currency translation.
Certain amounts in the prior year consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to the current year presentation.
In  June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses: Measurements of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” This standard requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses held at amortized cost.
This new standard replaces the use of forward-looking information to estimate credit losses and requires credit losses for available for sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than a reduction in the amortized cost basis.
In  August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, “Compensation – Retirement Benefits – Defined Benefit Plans – General.” This standard removes certain disclosures that are not considered cost beneficial, clarifies certain required disclosures and added additional disclosures.
In  August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.” This guidance reduces the complexity for the accounting for costs of implementing a cloud computing service arrangement and aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The Company paid $1,839 and $4,090 for its operating leases in the three and six months ended  September 30, 2019, respectively which are included in operating cash flows on the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The table below represents the basic and diluted earnings per share and sets forth the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding and potential common stock equivalents for the three and six month periods ending  September 30, 2018 and 2019.
During the three and six month periods ended  September 30, 2019, there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels within the fair value hierarchy.
If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, we evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and whether or not we expect to recover the security's entire amortized cost.
Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities.
Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract.
At  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements.
At  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, we classified investments in debt securities and time deposits as held-to-maturity securities.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of held-to-maturity investments at  September 30, 2019, by contractual maturity, are shown below.
The estimated fair value of these investments are based on valuation inputs that include benchmark yields, reported trades, broker and dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, and reference data, which are Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy.
We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent non-U.S., state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination.
Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or non-U.S., state or local regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs. At certain sites, financially responsible PRPs other than AVX also are, or have been, involved in site investigation and clean-up activities.
As is customary, the orders and decrees regarding sites where the PRPs are not themselves implementing the chosen remedy contain provisions allowing the EPA to reopen the agreement and seek additional amounts from settling PRPs in the event that certain contingencies occur, such as the discovery of significant new information about site conditions.
AVX has submitted its proposed remedy, but until the state has approved such proposal, AVX cannot determine if additional groundwater and soil remediation will be required, if substantial material will have to be disposed of offsite, or if additional remediation techniques will be required, any of which could result in a more extensive and costly plan of remediation.


