fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
Diluted per share amounts for Class A Common Shares are shown above.
Diluted earnings per share for Class B Common Shares under the two-class method are $0.05 and $0.09 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
See Note D to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required for complete financial statements.
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at July 31, 2018, results of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017 and cash flows for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit which the Company has determined to be six years, which has an impact of $1.1 million.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet is expected to be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase to contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
The Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually.
Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.


item2.txt
The rate of expansion appears to have peaked in some major economies and growth has become less synchronized.
Growth projections have been revised down for the euro area, Japan, and the United Kingdom, reflecting negative surprises to activity in early 2018.
Growth projections have been revised down for Argentina, Brazil, and India, while the outlook for some oil exporters has strengthened.” For fiscal 2019, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
Recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI), as well as (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
Our selling expenses generally include the salary and commissions paid to our sales professionals, along with marketing, promotional, travel and associated costs.


item3.txt
In the three months ended July 31, 2018, we generated approximately 20% of our revenues outside the United States.
We recorded an exchange rate loss of approximately $247,000 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 compared to an exchange rate gain of $41,000 for the same period in the prior year.


item4.txt
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
Item 1.


