fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required for complete consolidated financial statements.
In the opinion of our management, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at July 31, 2019, results of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
2016-02, Leases, which established new FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 842 ("ASC 842"), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
Under the new guidance, a lessee is required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.
Consistent with prior GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease.
However, unlike prior GAAP, which required only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard requires both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet.
These disclosures include qualitative and quantitative requirements, providing additional information about the amounts recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
Maintenance for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer.
Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract.
We allocate the transaction price to distinct performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling price (“SSP”).


item2.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Quarterly Report.
Since the April World Economic Outlook (WEO) report, the United States further increased tariffs on certain Chinese imports and China retaliated by raising tariffs on a subset of US imports.
Global technology supply chains were threatened by the prospect of US sanctions, Brexit related uncertainty continued, and rising geopolitical tensions roiled energy prices.
Accordingly, global trade, which is intensive in machinery and consumer durables, remains sluggish.
The projected growth pickup in 2020 is precarious, presuming stabilization in currently stressed emerging market and developing economies and progress toward resolving trade policy differences."
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
Our platform includes advanced analytics and is fueled by supply chain master data, allowing for the automation of critical business processes through the application of artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms to a variety of internal and external data streams.
Our primary operating units under our SCM segment include Logility, Inc., New Generation Computing, Inc. (“NGC”), Demand Management, Inc. (“DMI”), and Halo Business Intelligence (“Halo”).
In addition to our core SCM software business, we also offer technology staffing and consulting services through our wholly-owned subsidiary, The Proven Method, Inc., in the IT Consulting segment.
The Other segment consists of software and services provided to our legacy enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) customers, as well as corporate overhead and other common expenses.


item3.txt
In the three months ended July 31, 2019, we generated approximately 22% of our revenues outside the United States.
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $0.1 million for the three months ended July 31, 2019 compared to an exchange rate loss of approximately $0.2 million for the same period in the prior year.


item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings Item 1A.Risk Factors None.


