fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required for complete consolidated financial statements.
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at January 31, 2019, results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit, which the Company has determined to be six years, which will have an impact of $1.1 million.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet will be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase in contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, which established new ASC Topic 842 (ASC 842), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.
Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease.
However, unlike current GAAP, which requires only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard will require both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract.


item2.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The update noted that, “Global growth for 2018 is estimated at 3.7 percent, as in the October 2018 World Economic Outlook (WEO) forecast, despite weaker performance in some economies, notably Europe and Asia.
The global economy is projected to grow at 3.5 percent in 2019 and 3.6 percent in 2020, 0.2 and 0.1 percentage point below last October’s projections.
The further downward revision since October in part reflects carry over from softer momentum in the second half of 2018—including in Germany following the introduction of new automobile fuel emission standards and in Italy where concerns about sovereign and financial risks have weighed on domestic demand—but also weakening financial market sentiment as well as a contraction in Turkey now projected to be deeper than anticipated."
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
The SCM segment also includes (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
Our selling expenses mainly include the salary and commissions paid to our sales professionals, along with marketing, promotional, travel and associated costs.


item3.txt
In each of the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, we generated approximately 17% and 19% of our revenues, respectively, outside the United States.
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $21,000 and of $375,000 for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively, compared to an exchange rate gain of approximately $75,000 for both the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.


item4.txt
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings Item 1A.Risk Factors Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information None.


