fls.txt
You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “could,” “grow,” “may,” “potential,” “predict,” “strive” “will,” “seek,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes.


item1.txt
Diluted per share amounts for Class A shares are shown above.
See Note D to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required for complete financial statements.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit which the Company has determined to be six years, which has an impact of $1.1 million.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet was an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase to contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
The Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract.
Therefore, we estimate SSP for software licenses using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price less the SSP of other products and services promised in the contract.


item2.txt
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In the United States, momentum is still strong as fiscal stimulus continues to increase, but the forecast for 2019 has been revised down due to recently announced trade measures, including the tariffs imposed on $200 billion of US imports from China.
Growth projections have been marked down for the euro area and the United Kingdom, following surprises that suppressed activity in early 2018.
Among emerging market and developing economies, the growth prospects of many energy exporters have been lifted by higher oil prices, but growth was revised down for Argentina, Brazil, Iran, and Turkey, among others, reflecting country-specific factors, tighter financial conditions, geopolitical tensions, and higher oil import bills.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
The SCM segment primarily consists of Logility, which is a leading provider of collaborative supply chain optimization and advanced retail planning solutions that help medium, large and Fortune 500 companies transform their supply chain operations to gain a competitive advantage and which is recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI).
The SCM segment also includes (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.


item3.txt
In each of the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, we generated approximately 20% of our revenues outside the United States.
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $108,000 and of $355,000 for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, respectively, compared to an exchange rate loss of approximately $41,000 and a gain of $400 for the three months and six months ended October 31, 2017, respectively.


item4.txt
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.


part2.txt
Item 1.


