The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2017 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and $2.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively, during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three and six months ended March 31, 2017.
This Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Our leadership position and global support structure in each of these markets makes us a valued business partner to the some of the world’s largest semiconductor capital equipment and device makers, as well as pharmaceutical and life science research institutions in the world.
In the life sciences sample management market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
In October 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited, or 4titude, a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications, for a total purchase price of $65.1 million, net of cash acquired.
Gross margin was 40.6% for the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to 38.1% for the second quarter of fiscal year 2017, which resulted in an increase in gross profit of $19.7 million.
Operating expenses were $60.4 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $49.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2017, an increase of $10.7 million.
Net income was $67.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to $14.0 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.