Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains a number of forward-looking statements relative to our future plans and our expectations concerning our business and the industries we serve.
These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions about a number of important factors, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates contained in the forward-looking statements.
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.
Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.
Risk Factors of our 2018 10-K.
Readers are strongly encouraged to review those sections closely in conjunction with MD&A.
Company Overview
We are one of the world’s leading revenue management and digital monetization, customer experience, and payment solutions providers, and a trusted partner to some of the most well-known communications, media, and entertainment companies around the globe.
We leverage more than 35 years of experience to help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape.
Drawing from real-world knowledge and unparalleled expertise, we design and implement business solutions that make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter so they can focus on evolving their businesses to provide highly sophisticated and competitive multi-product offerings while also delivering increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences that meet the ever-changing demands of their customers across all stages of the customer lifecycle.
We offer revenue management, customer experience, and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
We generate approximately 60% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation.
Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 we generated 87% of our revenues from the Americas region, 9% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and 4% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region.
Impact of New Lease Accounting Pronouncement
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASC 842”), which requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than twelve months on its balance sheet.
We adopted the ASU in January of 2019, utilizing the effective date method of transition.
While the adoption of this standard resulted in a material gross-up of our Balance Sheet assets and liabilities, it did not have a material impact on our Income Statement or Statement of Cash Flows.
Refer to Notes 2 and 5 to our Financial Statements for further detail regarding the adoption of ASC 842.
Management Overview of Quarterly Results
Transaction fees are primarily comprised of interchange and other payment-related fees that we pay, in conjunction with the delivery of service to clients under our payment services contracts, to third-party payment processors and financial institutions.
Because we control the integrated service provided under our payment services client contracts, these transaction fees are presented gross, and not netted against revenues.
Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
Revenues.
Revenues for the third quarter of 2019 were $251.4 million, an 18% increase when compared to revenues of $213.1 million for the third quarter of 2018, with the increase mainly attributed to the additional revenues generated from the acquisition of Forte on October 1, 2018, and the continued growth in our cloud solutions and managed service arrangements.
Operating Results.
Operating income for the third quarter of 2019 was $33.4 million, or a 13.3% operating margin percentage, compared to $25.7 million, or a 12.0% operating margin percentage for the third quarter of 2018.
The increase in operating income is primarily a result of higher revenues generated in the third quarter of 2019.
Diluted EPS.
Diluted EPS for the third quarter of 2019 was $0.66 compared to $0.49 for the third quarter of 2018, reflective of the higher operating income for the third quarter of 2019.
Cash and Cash Flows.
As of September 30, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $172.0 million, as compared to $131.5 million as of June 30, 2019 and $162.9 million as of December 31, 2018.
Our cash flows from operating activities for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 were $79.1 million.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
Significant Client Relationships
Client Concentration.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our two largest clients, which are Comcast and Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”).
See our 2018 10-K for additional discussion of our business relationships and contractual terms with Comcast and Charter.
Comcast.
In November 2018, Comcast exercised the first of their two one-year renewal options extending the term of their agreement through June 30, 2020.
Terms of the extension remain consistent with the financial terms and obligations under the existing agreement.
Additionally, under the terms of the agreement, Comcast has the right to exercise an additional one-year renewal option no later than January 1, 2020, to extend the term of the Agreement through June 30, 2021.
A copy of the Comcast agreement and related amendments, with confidential information redacted, is included in the exhibits to our periodic filings with the SEC.
Critical Accounting Policies
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
In applying our accounting policies, different business conditions or the use of different assumptions may result in materially different amounts reported in our Financial Statements.
Results of Operations
We continue to transition our focus towards more predictable recurring revenues models with our managed services arrangements and delivery of our cloud-based solutions and away from large transactional software and services deals with related maintenance agreements.
The components of total expenses are discussed in more detail below.
Cost of Revenues.
See our 2018 10-K for a description of the types of costs that are included in the individual line items for cost of revenues.
Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of companies that sell software licenses and perform professional services.
Our quarterly revenues for software licenses and professional services may fluctuate, depending on various factors, including the timing of executed contracts and revenue recognition, and the delivery of contracted solutions.
However, the costs associated with software and professional services revenues are not subject to the same degree of variability (e.g., these costs are generally fixed in nature within a relatively short period of time), and thus, fluctuations in our cost of software and services as a percentage of our software and services revenues will likely occur between periods.
Loss on Extinguishment of Debt.
In March 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement, and as a result, we incurred a loss of $0.8 million related to the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
Our estimated full year 2019 effective income tax rate is approximately 26%.
 Liquidity
Cash and Liquidity
As of September 30, 2019, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $172.0 million, as compared to $131.5 million as of June 30, 2019 and $162.9 million as of December 31, 2018.
We generally invest our excess cash balances in low-risk, short-term investments to limit our exposure to market and credit risks.
As part of our 2018 Credit Agreement, we have a $200 million senior secured revolving loan facility with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires in March 2023.
As of September 30, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding on the 2018 Revolver.
The 2018 Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants and financial covenants.
As of September 30, 2019, and the date of this filing, we believe that we are in compliance with the provisions of the 2018 Credit Agreement.
We generally have ready access to substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment balances, but may face limitations on moving cash out of certain foreign jurisdictions due to currency controls.
As of September 30, 2019, we had $2.8 million of cash restricted as to use primarily to collateralize outstanding letters of credit.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Cash flows from operating activities for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 reflect the negative impacts of the payment of the 2018 and 2017 year-end accrued employee incentive compensation in the first quarter subsequent to the year-end accrual for these items.
Additionally, cash flows from operating activities for the first and second quarters of 2019, and the second quarter of 2018, were negatively impacted by the timing around certain recurring client payments that were received subsequent to quarter-end.
We believe the above table illustrates our ability to generate recurring quarterly cash flows from our operations, and the importance of managing our working capital items.
Variations in our net cash provided by operating activities are generally related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities (related mostly to fluctuations in timing at quarter-end of client payments and changes in accrued expenses), and generally over longer periods of time, do not significantly impact our cash flows from operations.
Billed Trade Accounts Receivable
Management of our billed accounts receivable is one of the primary factors in maintaining consistently strong quarterly cash flows from operating activities.
Our billed trade accounts receivable balance includes significant billings for several non-revenue items (primarily postage, sales tax, and deferred revenue items).
As a result, we evaluate our performance in collecting our accounts receivable through our calculation of days billings outstanding (“DBO”) rather than a typical days sales outstanding (“DSO”) calculation.
As of September 30, 2019, nearly 95% of our billed accounts receivable balance was less than 60 days past due.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Our financing activities typically consist of activities associated with our common stock and our long-term debt.
Cash Dividends Paid on Common Stock.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Board approved dividends totaling $22.0 million and $21.0 million, respectively, and made dividend payments of $22.0 million and $21.2 million, respectively, through September 30, 2019 and 2018 (with the differences attributed to unvested incentive shares that are paid upon vesting).
Repurchase of Common Stock.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we repurchased approximately 485,000 and 395,000 shares of our common stock, respectively, under the guidelines of our Stock Repurchase Program for $20.6 million and $16.9 million, respectively, and paid $21.0 million and $16.8 million, respectively, through September 30, 2019 and 2018 (with the differences attributed to the timing of share settlement ).
Outside of our Stock Repurchase Program, during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we repurchased from our employees and then cancelled approximately 112,000 and 154,000 shares of our common stock, respectively, for $4.7 million and $7.2 million, respectively, in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans.
Long-term Debt.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we made principal repayments of $5.6 million and $3.8 million respectively.
During the first quarter of 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement and as a result, we repaid the outstanding principal balance of $120.0 million and borrowed $150.0 million under the 2018 Credit Agreement, resulting in a net increase of available cash of $30.0 million.
As part of the refinancing, we paid $1.5 million of deferred financing costs.
See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for additional discussion of our long-term debt.
Capital Resources
Current Sources of Capital Resources.
•
•
Operating Cash Flows.
As described in the Liquidity section above, we believe we have the ability to generate strong cash flows to fund our operating activities and act as a source of funds for our capital resource needs.
•
Revolving Credit Facility.
We currently have a $200 million revolving loan facility, our 2018 Revolver.
As of September 30, 2019, we had no borrowing outstanding on our 2018 Revolver and had the entire $200 million available to us.
Our long-term debt obligations are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our Financial Statements.
•
Common Stock Repurchases.
We have made repurchases of our common stock in the past under our Stock Repurchase Program.
As of September 30, 2019, we had 5.1 million shares authorized for repurchase remaining under our Stock Repurchase Program.
Our 2018 Credit Agreement may place certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our common stock.
Under our Stock Repurchase Program, we may repurchase shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, including through an accelerated stock repurchase plan or under a SEC Rule 10b5-1 plan.
The actual timing and amount of future share repurchases will be dependent on then current market conditions and other business-related factors.
Our common stock repurchases are discussed in more detail in Note 8 to our Financial Statements.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we repurchased 0.5 million shares of our common stock for $20.6 million (weighted-average price of $42.37 per share).
Outside of our Stock Repurchase Program, during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we repurchased from our employees and then cancelled 0.1 million shares of our common stock for $4.7 million in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans.
•
Cash Dividends.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Board declared dividends totaling $22.0 million.
Going forward, we expect to pay cash dividends each year in March, June, September, and December, with the amount and timing subject to the Board’s approval.
•
Acquisition.
On October 1, 2018, we acquired Forte, a leading provider of advanced payment solutions headquartered in Allen, Texas for a purchase price of approximately $93 million, (approximately $85 million, excluding cash acquired), and held back approximately $13 million in cash subject to certain tax filings, which was paid in July 2019.
The purchase agreement includes provisions for $18.8 million of potential future earn-out payments over a four-year measurement period.
The earn-out payments are tied to performance-based goals and continued employment by the eligible recipients.
As of September 30, 2019, we have made no earn-out payments.
•
Equity Method Investment.
In the first quarter of 2019, we made an additional $4 million investment in a payment technology and services company that enables omni-channel digital payments in Latin America.
As of September 30, 2019, we held an 8% noncontrolling interest with a carrying value of $6.6 million.
•
Capital Expenditures.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we spent $27.7 million on capital expenditures.
As of September 30, 2019, we have made no significant capital expenditure commitments.
•
Stock Warrants.
In 2014, we issued Stock Warrants with an exercise price of $26.68 per warrant to Comcast as an incentive for Comcast to convert new customer accounts to ACP.
Once vested, Comcast may exercise the Stock Warrants and elect either physical delivery of common shares or net share settlement (cashless exercise).
Alternatively, the exercise of the Stock Warrants may be settled with cash based solely on our approval, or if Comcast were to beneficially own or control in excess of 19.99% of our common stock or voting of the Company.
As of September 30, 2019, 1.4 million Stock Warrants are outstanding, of which 0.4 million are vested.
The Stock Warrants are discussed in more detail in Note 8 to our Financial Statements.
•
During the next twelve months, there are no scheduled conversion triggers on our 2016 Convertible Notes.
As a result, we expect our required debt service cash outlay during the next twelve months for the 2016 Convertible Notes to be limited to interest payments of $9.8 million.
Our 2018 Credit Agreement mandatory repayments and the cash interest expense (based upon current interest rates) for the next twelve months is $9.4 million, and $5.4 million, respectively.
We have the ability to make prepayments on our 2018 Credit Agreement without penalty.
Our long-term debt obligations are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our Financial Statements.
In summary, we expect to continue to have material needs for capital resources going forward, as noted above.
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and our 2018 Revolver, together with cash expected to be generated in the future from our current operating activities, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital resource requirements for at least the next twelve months.
We also believe we could obtain additional capital through other debt sources which may be available to us if deemed appropriate.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
The following table presents information with respect to purchases of our common stock made during the third quarter of 2019 by CSG Systems International, Inc. or any “affiliated purchaser” of CSG Systems International, Inc., as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange Act.
The total number of shares purchased that are not part of the Stock Repurchase Program represents shares purchased and cancelled in connection with stock incentive plans.
See Note 8 to our Financial Statements for additional information regarding our share repurchases.
