Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  


Forward-Looking Statements 

This report contains a number of forward-looking statements relative to our future plans and our expectations concerning our business and the industries we serve.
These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions about a number of important factors, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates contained in the forward-looking statements.
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.
Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.
Risk Factors of our 2017 10-K.
Readers are strongly encouraged to review those sections closely in conjunction with MD&A.
Company Overview 

We are one of the world’s largest and most established revenue management and digital monetization providers, primarily serving some of the most well-known communications, information, and content companies around the globe.
We help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape, bringing more than thirty-five years of experience supporting the world’s most respected service providers.
We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.
We offer revenue management, customer experience, and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
We generate approximately 65% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation.
Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 we generated approximately 85% of our revenues from the Americas region, approximately 10% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and approximately 5% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region.
Key Impact of U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act  

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”) was passed into legislation.
The Tax Reform Act amends the Internal Revenue Code, reducing the corporate income tax rate, changing or eliminating certain income tax deductions and credits and provides sweeping change to how U.S. companies are taxed on their international operations.
The Tax Reform Act is generally effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017; however, certain provisions of the Tax Reform Act had effective dates beginning in 2017.
The Tax Reform Act reduces the U.S. maximum rate of income taxation from 35% to 21% applicable to taxable years beginning January 1, 2018.
We currently expect our effective income tax rate for the full year 2018 to be approximately 27%.
See Note 7 to our 2017 10-K for additional impacts of the Tax Reform Act.
Impact of New Revenue Accounting Pronouncement 

As discussed in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, in January 2018 we adopted ASC 606, a single comprehensive model which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP, utilizing the cumulative effect approach.
Under the new guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
In conjunction with the adoption of ASC 606, we recorded a cumulative adjustment increasing beginning retained earnings (net of tax) by approximately $7 million, primarily related to contracts that we were required to defer revenue as we did not have VSOE for certain undelivered elements.
We do not anticipate ASC 606 will have a material impact on our revenues in 2018 and beyond, as the new revenue accounting rules under ASC 606 are fairly consistent with our current policies and guidelines based on the nature of our client contracts.
•  

Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.
•  

Certain revenues and related costs previously recorded as software and services or maintenance on our Income Statement are now being classified as cloud and related solutions.
•  

Investments in client contracts on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities.
Since we adopted ASC 606 using the cumulative effect method, prior period comparative information in our Financial Statements have not been adjusted and continue to be as previously reported.
Refer to Note 2 for further detail and discussion regarding the adoption of ASC 606.
Acquisition Activity 

Business Ink 

As discussed in Note 5 to our Financial Statements, on February 28, 2018 we acquired Business Ink, a multi-channel communications company based in Austin, Texas, for approximately $70 million, excluding acquisition-related expenses.
For the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2018, Business Ink contributed cloud and related solutions revenues of $13.9 million and $34.9 million, respectively, and was slightly dilutive to our year-to-date operating results when factoring in acquired amortization expense.
Forte Payment Systems, Inc. 

As discussed in Note 5 to our Financial Statements, on October 1, 2018, we acquired Forte, a leading provider of advanced payment solutions headquartered in Allen, Texas.
We acquired Forte for a purchase price of approximately $85 million ($80 million, net of cash acquired), and held back approximately $13 million in cash subject to certain tax filings.
This represents a purchase price approximately equal to Forte’s 2018 projected revenues.
In addition, the stock purchase agreement includes provisions for $18.8 million of potential future earn-out payments over a four-year measurement period.
At this time, for the remainder of 2018 we expect that Forte will contribute approximately $20 million of revenues and be dilutive to our U.S. GAAP operating results, due to acquisition amortization and acquisition-related costs.
As we have not completed the valuation analysis and calculations necessary to finalize the required purchase price allocations, which may include allocations to goodwill and other intangible assets such as trademarks and trade names, developed technology, noncompetition agreements, and customer-related assets, the expected impact of the Forte acquisition is based on estimates for the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
Because of the inherent uncertainties in making such estimates, the actual impact of Forte on our financial performance for 2018 and beyond may vary from our current expectations as we work through our integration efforts and complete the Forte purchase accounting.
We undertake no duty to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Management Overview of Quarterly Results 




Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
Revenues.
Our revenues for the third quarter of 2018 were $213.1 million, a 7% increase when compared to revenues of $199.2 million for the third quarter of 2017, with the increase mainly attributed to the acquisition of Business Ink on February 28, 2018.
Operating Results.
Operating income for the third quarter of 2018 was $25.7 million, or a 12.0% operating margin percentage, compared to $28.4 million, or a 14.2% operating margin percentage for the third quarter of 2017, with the decrease in operating margin percentage reflective of costs associated with the integration of Business Ink and the continuation of planned investments aimed at generating future long-term growth in our business.
Diluted EPS.
Diluted EPS for the third quarter of 2018 was $0.49 compared to $0.44 for the third quarter of 2017, with the increase primarily attributed to a lower effective income tax rate resulting primarily from the Tax Reform Act enacted in December 2017.
Cash and Cash Flows.
As of September 30, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $199.3 million, as compared to $186.4 million as of June 30, 2018 and $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017.
Our cash flows from operating activities for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 were $47.1 million.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
Significant Client Relationships  

Client Concentration.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our largest clients, which are Comcast, Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”), and DISH Network Corporation (“DISH”).
See our 2017 10-K for additional discussion of our business relationships and contractual terms with Comcast, Charter, and DISH.
Critical Accounting Policies  

The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
In applying our accounting policies, different business conditions or the use of different assumptions may result in materially different amounts reported in our Financial Statements.
Results of Operations 











The components of total expenses are discussed in more detail below.
Cost of Revenues.
See our 2017 10-K for a description of the types of costs that are included in the individual line items for cost of revenues.
Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of companies that sell software licenses and perform professional services.
Our quarterly revenues for software licenses and professional services may fluctuate, depending on various factors, including the timing of executed contracts and revenue recognition, and the delivery of contracted solutions.
However, the costs associated with software and professional services revenues are not subject to the same degree of variability (e.g., these costs are generally fixed in nature within a relatively short period of time), and thus, fluctuations in our cost of software and services as a percentage of our software and services revenues will likely occur between periods.
Loss on Extinguishment of Debt.
In March 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement (see Note 4 to our Financial Statements).
As a result, we incurred a loss of $0.8 million related to the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
Liquidity  

Cash and Liquidity 

As of September 30, 2018, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $199.3 million, as compared to $186.4 million as of June 30, 2018 and $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017.
We generally invest our excess cash balances in low-risk, short-term investments to limit our exposure to market and credit risks.
During the first quarter of 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement primarily to extend the term of the loan from February 2020 to March 2023 and obtain a reduction in the interest rate and other fees.
The 2018 Credit Agreement increased our liquidity and capital resources position by approximately $30 million.
As part of our 2018 Credit Agreement, we have a $200 million senior secured revolving loan facility with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires in March 2023.
As of September 30, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding on the 2018 Revolver.
The 2018 Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants and financial covenants.
As of September 30, 2018, and the date of this filing, we believe that we are in compliance with the provisions of the 2018 Credit Agreement.
Our short-term investments as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $2.1 million and $139.1 million, respectively.
The significant decrease in our short-term investments between periods is due primarily to the acquisition of Business Ink in February 2018 for approximately $70 million and positioning of cash as of September 30, 2018 for the acquisition of Forte, which closed on October 1, 2018 for a purchase price of approximately $85 million (approximately $80 million, net of cash acquired), less approximately $13 million in cash subject to certain tax filings (see Note 5 to our Financial Statements for additional discussion of our acquisitions).
We generally have ready access to substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment balances, but may face limitations on moving cash out of certain foreign jurisdictions due to currency controls.
As of September 30, 2018, we had $3.0 million of cash restricted as to use primarily to collateralize outstanding letters of credit.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities  





Cash flows from operating activities for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 reflect the negative impacts of the payment of the 2017 and 2016 year-end accrued employee incentive compensation in the first quarter subsequent to the year-end accrual for these items.
Cash flows from operating activities for the second quarter of 2018 was negatively impacted primarily by the increase in the accounts receivable balance mainly related to the timing of a recurring payment from a significant client that was delayed and received subsequent to quarter-end.
We believe the above table illustrates our ability to generate recurring quarterly cash flows from our operations, and the importance of managing our working capital items.
Variations in our net cash provided by operating activities are generally related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities (related mostly to fluctuations in timing at quarter-end of client payments and changes in accrued expenses), and generally over longer periods of time, do not significantly impact our cash flows from operations.
Billed Trade Accounts Receivable 

Management of our billed accounts receivable is one of the primary factors in maintaining consistently strong quarterly cash flows from operating activities.
Our billed trade accounts receivable balance includes significant billings for several non-revenue items (primarily postage, sales tax, and deferred revenue items).
As a result, we evaluate our performance in collecting our accounts receivable through our calculation of days billings outstanding (“DBO”) rather than a typical days sales outstanding (“DSO”) calculation.
The increase in gross and net billed accounts receivable during 2018 is due to the addition of Business Ink’s accounts receivable and the timing around certain recurring client payments (from different clients) that were delayed at the end of the second and  


third quarter.
As these monthly payments were received subsequent to each quarter-end, they do not raise any collectability concerns.
All other changes in our gross and net billed accounts receivable reflect the normal fluctuations in the timing of client payments at quarter-end, as evidenced by our relatively consistent DBO metric over the past several quarters.
As of September 30, 2018, approximately 95% of our billed accounts receivable balance is less than 60 days past due.
Other Current and Non-Current Assets 

Other current and non-current assets increased $10.3 million to $49.6 million as of September 30, 2018, from $39.3 million as of December 31, 2017, due primarily to the timing of payments of various prepaid items, mainly, prepaid software and hardware maintenance fees.
Additionally, as illustrated in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, as a result of the application of ASC 606, an additional $10.2 million of client contract costs are now being included in operating activities as changes in other current and non-current assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Prior to the adoption of ASC 606, these were included with investments in client contracts and included in investing activities.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities 






As a result of the application of ASC 606, $7.3 million of investments in client contracts have been included in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Prior to the adoption of ASC 606, investments in client contracts were included in investing activities.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities  

Our financing activities typically consist of activities associated with our common stock and our long-term debt.
Cash Dividends Paid on Common Stock.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, the Board approved dividend payments totaling $21.2 million and $20.0 million, respectively.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we paid dividends of $21.2 million and $20.4 million, respectively (with the additional amounts attributed to dividends for incentive shares paid upon vesting).
Repurchase of Common Stock.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we repurchased 0.4 million shares of our common stock in each period under the guidelines of our Stock Repurchase Program for $16.8 million and $15.6 million, respectively.
Outside of our Stock Repurchase Program, during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we repurchased from our employees and then cancelled 0.2 million shares of our common stock in each period for $7.2 million and $9.4 million, respectively, in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans.
Long-term Debt.
During the first quarter of 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement and as a result, we repaid the outstanding principal balance of $120.0 million and borrowed $150.0 million under the 2018 Credit Agreement, resulting in a net increase of available cash of $30.0 million.
As part of the refinancing, we paid $1.5 million of deferred financing costs.
Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we made principal repayments of $3.8 million and $11.3 million, respectively.
See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for additional discussion of our long-term debt.
Capital Resources  


Current Sources of Capital Resources.
•  


•  

Operating Cash Flows.
As described in the Liquidity section above, we believe we have the ability to generate strong cash flows to fund our operating activities and act as a source of funds for our capital resource needs.
•  

Long-Term Debt\Revolving Credit Facility.
In March 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement and as a result, we repaid the outstanding term loan principal balance of $120.0 million and borrowed $150.0 million, resulting in a net increase in cash of $30 million (the 2018 Credit Agreement).
The 2018 Credit Agreement also includes a $200 million revolving loan facility (2018 Revolver).
As of September 30, 2018, we had no borrowing outstanding on our 2018 Revolver and had the entire $200 million available to us.
Our long-term debt obligations are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our Financial Statements.
•  

Common Stock Repurchases.
We have made repurchases of our common stock in the past under our Stock Repurchase Program.
As of September 30, 2018, we had 5.8 million shares authorized for repurchase remaining under our Stock Repurchase Program.
Our 2018 Credit Agreement places certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our common stock.
In September 2018, we announced an increase in our planned share repurchases of up to $150 million under our Stock Repurchase Program over the next three years.
Under our Stock Repurchase Program, we may repurchase shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, including through an accelerated stock repurchase plan or under a SEC Rule 10b5-1 plan.
The actual timing and amount of the share repurchases will be dependent on then current market conditions and other business-related factors over the next three years.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 0.4 million shares of our common stock for $16.9 million (weighted-average price of $42.71 per share).
Outside of our Stock Repurchase Program, during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased from our employees and then cancelled 0.2 million shares of our common stock for $7.2 million in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans.
Our common stock repurchases are discussed in more detail in Note 10 to our Financial Statements.
•  

Cash Dividends.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Board declared dividends totaling $21.2 million.
Going forward, we expect to pay cash dividends each year in March, June, September, and December, with the amount and timing subject to the Board’s approval.
•  

Acquisitions.
In February 2018, we acquired Business Ink, a privately-held multi-channel business communications company based in Austin, Texas for approximately $70 million.
The acquisition was funded from currently available cash.
On October 1, 2018, we acquired Forte, a leading provider of advanced payment solutions headquartered in Allen, Texas for a purchase price of approximately $85 million, (approximately $80 million, net of cash acquired), and held back approximately $13 million in cash subject to certain tax filings.
The purchase agreement includes provisions for $18.8 million of potential future earn-out payments over a four-year measurement period.
The earn-out payments are tied to performance-based goals and continued employment by the eligible recipients.
The acquisition was funded from currently available cash.
•  

Equity Method Investment.
On July 30, 2018, we made an investment of $2.8 million for a 4% noncontrolling financial interest in a payment technology and services company that enables omni-channel digital payments in Latin America.
See Note 2 to our Financial Statements for additional discussion.
•  

Capital Expenditures.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we spent $44.0 million on capital expenditures.
As of September 30, 2018, we had committed to purchase approximately $9 million of equipment.
•  

Stock Warrants.
We have issued Stock Warrants with an exercise price of $26.68 per warrant to Comcast as an incentive for Comcast to convert new customer accounts to ACP.
Once vested, Comcast may exercise the Stock Warrants and elect either physical delivery of common shares or net share settlement (cashless exercise).
Alternatively, the exercise of the Stock Warrants may be settled with cash based solely on our approval, or if Comcast were to beneficially own or control in excess of 19.99% of our common stock or voting of the Company.
As of September 30, 2018, approximately 1.4 million Stock Warrants are outstanding, of which 0.4 million are vested.
The Stock Warrants are discussed in more detail in Note 10 to our Financial Statements.
•  



During the next twelve months, there are no scheduled conversion triggers on our 2016 Convertible Notes.
As a result, we expect our required debt service cash outlay during the next twelve months for the 2016 Convertible Notes to be limited to interest payments of $9.8 million.
Our 2018 Credit Agreement mandatory repayments and the cash interest expense (based upon current interest rates) for the next twelve months is $7.5 million, and $6.1 million, respectively.
We have the ability to make prepayments on our 2018 Credit Agreement without penalty.
Our long-term debt obligations are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our Financial Statements.
In summary, we expect to continue to have material needs for capital resources going forward, as noted above.
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and our 2018 Revolver, together with cash expected to be generated in the future from our current operating activities, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital resource requirements for  


at least the next twelve months.
We also believe we could obtain additional capital through other debt sources which may be available to us if deemed appropriate.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

The following table presents information with respect to purchases of our common stock made during the third quarter of 2018 by CSG Systems International, Inc. or any “affiliated purchaser” of CSG Systems International, Inc., as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange Act.
The total number of shares purchased that are not part of the Stock Repurchase Program represents shares purchased and cancelled in connection with stock incentive plans.
See Note 10 to our Financial Statements for additional information regarding our share repurchases.
