Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices.
As of March 31, 2019, we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, fluctuations and changes in the market value of our cash equivalents and short-term investments, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
We have not historically entered into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Interest Rate Risk  

Long-Term Debt.
The interest rate on our 2016 Convertible Notes is fixed, and thus, as it relates to our convertible debt borrowings, we are not exposed to changes in interest rates.
The interest rates under our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.
A hypothetical adverse change of 10% in the March 31, 2019 adjusted LIBOR rate would not have had a material impact upon our results of operations.
Market Risk 

Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments.
Our cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $123.6 million and $139.3 million, respectively.
Certain of our cash balances are “swept” into overnight money market accounts on a daily basis, and at times, any excess funds are invested in low-risk, somewhat longer term, cash equivalent instruments and short-term investments.
Our cash equivalents are invested primarily in institutional money market funds, commercial paper, and time deposits held at major banks.
We have minimal market risk for our cash and cash equivalents due to the relatively short maturities of the instruments.
Settlement Assets.
We are exposed to market risk associated with cash held on behalf of our clients related to our payment processing services.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $87.9 million and $124.6 million, respectively, of cash collected on behalf of our clients which is held for an established holding period until settlement with the client.
The holding period is generally one to four business days depending on the payment model and contractual terms with the client.
During the holding period, cash is held in trust accounts with various major financial institutions in the U.S. in an amount equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount owed to our clients.
Long-Term Debt.
The fair value of our convertible debt is exposed to market risk.
We do not carry our convertible debt at fair value but present the fair value for disclosure purposes (see Note 2 to our Financial Statements).
Generally, the fair value of our convertible debt is impacted by changes in interest rates and changes in the price and volatility of our common stock.
As of March 31, 2019, the fair value of the 2016 Convertible Notes was estimated at $242.4 million, using quoted market prices.
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

Due to foreign operations around the world, our balance sheet and income statement are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk due to the fluctuations in the value of currencies in which we conduct business.
While we attempt to maximize natural hedges by incurring expenses in the same currency in which we contract revenue, the related expenses for that revenue could be in one or more differing currencies than the revenue stream.
During the first quarter of 2019, we generated approximately 88% of our revenues in U.S. dollars.
We expect that, in the foreseeable future, we will continue to generate a very large percentage of our revenues in U.S. dollars.
A hypothetical adverse change of 10% in the March 31, 2019 exchange rates would not have had a material impact upon our results of operations based on the monetary assets and liabilities as of March 31, 2019.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities  

None  

Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures  

None  

Item 5.
Other Information  

None  

Item 6.
Exhibits  

The Exhibits filed or incorporated by reference herewith are as specified in the Exhibit Index.
CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  



Portions of the exhibit have been omitted pursuant to SEC rules regarding confidential information.
SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
