Item 4.
Controls and Procedures  


As required by Rule 13a-15(b), our management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e).
Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Legal Proceedings  

From time-to-time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business.
We are not presently a party to any material pending or threatened legal proceedings.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors  

A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A.
Risk Factors in our 2018 Form 10-K.
There were no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our 2018 Form 10-K during the second quarter of 2019.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

The following table presents information with respect to purchases of our common stock made during the second quarter of 2019 by CSG Systems International, Inc. or any “affiliated purchaser” of CSG Systems International, Inc., as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange Act.
The total number of shares purchased that are not part of the Stock Repurchase Program represents shares purchased and cancelled in connection with stock incentive plans.
See Note 8 to our Financial Statements for additional information regarding our share repurchases.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities  

None  

Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures  

None  

Item 5.
Other Information  

None  

Item 6.
Exhibits  

The Exhibits filed or incorporated by reference herewith are as specified in the Exhibit Index.
CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  



Portions of the exhibit have been omitted pursuant to SEC rules regarding confidential information.
SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
