Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains a number of forward-looking statements relative to our future plans and our expectations concerning our business and the industries we serve.
These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions about a number of important factors, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates contained in the forward-looking statements.
Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A.
Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A.
Risk Factors of our 2017 10-K.
Readers are strongly encouraged to review those sections closely in conjunction with MD&A.
Company Overview
We are one of the world’s largest and most established business support solutions (“BSS”) providers, primarily serving some of the most well-known communications, information, and content companies around the globe.
We help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape, bringing more than thirty-five years of experience supporting the world’s most respected service providers.
We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.
We offer BSS and revenue management, customer experience and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands.
Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention.
We generate approximately 70% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, logistics, and transportation.
Additionally, during the first quarter of 2018, we generated approximately 84% of our revenues from the Americas region, approximately 10% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and approximately 6% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region.
Key Impact of U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”) was passed into legislation.
The Tax Reform Act amends the Internal Revenue Code, reducing the corporate income tax rate, changing or eliminating certain income tax deductions and credits and provides sweeping change to how U.S. companies are taxed on their international operations.
The Tax Reform Act is generally effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017; however, certain provisions of the Tax Reform Act have effective dates beginning in 2017.
The Tax Reform Act reduces the U.S. maximum rate of income taxation from 35% to 21% applicable to taxable years beginning January 1, 2018.
We currently expect our GAAP effective income tax rates for the full year 2018 to be approximately 30%.
See Note 7 to our 2017 10-K for additional impacts of the Tax Reform Act.
The overall anticipated impacts of the Tax Reform Act (including our effective income tax rate going forward) are based on our current assessments and underlying estimates.
We may encounter changes in these assessments and estimates or come across unforeseen additional items in the future not currently contemplated by us that may result in changes to our current anticipated impacts
of the Tax Reform Act (including our effective income rate going forward).
We undertake no duty to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Impact of New Revenue Accounting Pronouncement
As discussed in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, in January 2018 we adopted ASU 606, a single comprehensive model which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP, utilizing the cumulative effect approach.
Under the new guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
In conjunction with the adoption of this ASU, we recorded a cumulative adjustment increasing beginning retained earnings (net of tax) by approximately $7 million, primarily related to contracts that we were required to defer revenue as we did not have VSOE for certain undelivered elements.
We do not anticipate ASU 606 will have a material impact on our revenues in 2018 and beyond, as the new revenue accounting rules under ASU 606 are fairly consistent with our current policies and guidelines based on the nature of our client contracts.
•
Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.
•
Certain revenues and related costs previously recorded as software and services or maintenance on our Income Statement are now being classified as cloud and related solutions.
•
Investments in client contracts on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities.
Refer to Note 2 for further detail and discussion regarding the adoption of ASU 606.
Acquisition of Business Ink
As discussed in Note 5 to the Financial Statements, on February 28, 2017 we acquired Business Ink, a multi-channel communications company based in Austin, Texas, for approximately $70 million, excluding acquisition-related expenses.
This represents a purchase price of slightly over one times historical revenues.
For the first quarter of 2018, Business Ink contributed $5.2 million of cloud and related solutions revenues and was neutral to our results of operations for the quarter when factoring in acquired amortization expense.
At this time, for the full year 2018 we expect that Business Ink will contribute approximately $50 million of revenue for the ten months of 2018 and decrease our results of operations by approximately 5%.
After we complete our integration plan for Business Ink over the next year or so, we believe it will then be accretive to our earnings on a go forward basis.
The expected impact of the Business Ink acquisition includes estimates for certain integration-related expenses and estimates for the amortization of acquired intangible assets.
Because of the inherent uncertainties in making such estimates, the actual impact of Business Ink on our financial performance for 2018 and beyond may vary from our current expectations as we work through our integration efforts and complete the Business Ink purchase accounting.
We undertake no duty to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Management Overview of Quarterly Results
Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges.
Operating Results.
Operating income for the first quarter of 2018 was $25.8 million, or a 12.8% operating income margin percentage, compared to $27.0 million, or a 14.0% operating income margin percentage for the first quarter of 2017, with the decreases in operating income and operating income margin percentage mainly attributed to the $2.4 million of Business Ink acquisition-related costs.
Diluted EPS.
Diluted EPS for the first quarter of 2018 was $0.42 compared to $0.62 for the first quarter of 2017, with the decrease mainly attributed to a lower effective income tax rate of 9% for the first quarter of 2017, compared to an effective income tax rate of 31% for the current quarter.
The lower first quarter 2017 income tax rate of 9% was primarily the result of an approximately $5 million net income tax benefit resulting from Comcast’s exercise of 1.4 million vested stock warrants in January 2017.
Cash and Cash Flows.
As of March 31, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $222.1 million, as compared $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017.
The quarterly decrease can be mainly attributed to the purchase of Business Ink for approximately $70 million.
Our cash flows from operating activities for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $29.9 million.
See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows.
Significant Client Relationships
Client Concentration.
A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our largest clients, which are Comcast, Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”), and DISH Network Corporation (“DISH”).
See our 2017 10-K for additional discussion of our business relationships and contractual terms with Comcast, Charter, and DISH.
Critical Accounting Policies
The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies.
In applying our accounting policies, different business conditions or the use of different assumptions may result in materially different amounts reported in our Financial Statements.
Results of Operations
Cloud and Related Solutions Revenues.
Cloud and related solutions revenues for the first quarter of 2018 were $177.5 million, a 12% increase when compared to $158.8 million for the first quarter of 2017.
The increase in cloud and related solutions revenues is primarily due to the adoption of ASC 606 which resulted in $7.0 million of revenue previously classified as software and services and maintenance revenue now being classified as cloud and related solutions revenues, and the $5.2 million of revenues generated by the acquired Business Ink business.
The remaining increase is mainly attributed to the execution of additional managed services arrangements, an increase in ancillary services revenues, and the conversion of approximately four million customer accounts onto ACP over the past twelve months.
Software and Services Revenues.
Software and services revenues for the first quarter of 2018 were $12.0 million, a 21% decrease when compared to $15.1 million for the first quarter of 2017.
The decrease in software and services revenues can be attributed mainly to the shift in our focus towards more recurring revenue arrangements, which are included in our cloud and related solutions revenues, and the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in $1.6 million of revenue previously classified as software and services now being classified as cloud and related solutions.
Maintenance Revenues.
Maintenance revenues for the first quarter of 2018 were $12.2 million, a 34% decrease when compared to $18.6 million for the first quarter of 2017, with the decrease mainly due to the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in $5.1 million of revenue previously classified as maintenance now being classified as cloud and related solutions.
The components of total expenses are discussed in more detail below.
Cost of Revenues.
See our 2017 10-K for a description of the types of costs that are included in the individual line items for cost of revenues.
Cost of Cloud and Related Solutions (Exclusive of Depreciation).
The cost of cloud and related solutions for the first quarter of 2018 increased 14% to $86.9 million, from $76.1 million for the first quarter of 2017.
This increase relates almost entirely to the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in $6.3 million of costs, previously classified as cost of software and services and maintenance, now being classified as cost of cloud and related solutions, and one month of cloud and related solutions expense from the acquired Business Ink business.
Total cloud and related solutions cost as a percentage of cloud and related solutions revenues for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 were 49.0% and 47.9%, respectively, with the increase attributed to the reclassifications resulting from the adoption of ASC 606.
Cost of Software and Services (Exclusive of Depreciation).
The cost of software and services for the first quarter of 2018 decreased 24% to $8.5 million, from $11.3 million for the first quarter of 2017.
This decrease is reflective of the decrease in revenues as personnel and the related costs previously allocated to professional services projects have been reassigned to other areas of the business.
Total software and services cost as a percentage of our software and services revenues for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 were 71.4% and 74.9%, respectively.
Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of companies that sell software licenses and perform professional services.
Our quarterly revenues for software licenses and professional services may fluctuate, depending on various factors, including the timing of executed contracts and revenue recognition, and the delivery of contracted solutions.
However, the costs associated with software and professional services revenues are not subject to the same degree of variability (e.g., these costs are generally fixed in nature within a relatively short period of time), and thus, fluctuations in our cost of software and services as a percentage of our software and services revenues will likely occur between periods.
Cost of Maintenance (Exclusive of Depreciation).
The cost of maintenance for the first quarter of 2018 decreased 46% to $5.7 million, from $10.4 million for the first quarter of 2017.
Total cost of maintenance as a percentage of our maintenance revenues for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 were 46.2% and 55.7%, respectively.
These decreases can be attributed to the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in $5.1 million of costs, previously classified as maintenance, now being classified as cost of cloud and related solutions.
 Operating Income.
Operating income for the first quarter of 2018 was $25.8 million, or 12.8% of total revenues, compared to $27.0 million, or 14.0% of total revenues for the first quarter of 2017.
The decrease in operating income and operating income margin percentage can be mainly attributed to the $2.4 million of acquisition-related costs.
Loss on Extinguishment of Debt.
In March 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement (see Note 4 to our Financial Statements).
As a result, we incurred a loss of $0.8 million related to the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
The effective income tax rate for the first quarter of 2018 reflects the impact of the U.S. Tax Cut and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”) that was passed into legislation in December 2017.
The Tax Reform Act reduces the U.S. maximum rate of income taxation from 35% to 21% applicable to taxable years beginning January 1, 2018.
As a result, for the full-year 2018 we are currently estimating an effective income tax rate of approximately 30%.
The lower first quarter 2017 effective income tax rate reflects an approximately $5 million net benefit resulting from Comcast’s exercise of 1.4 million vested stock warrants in January 2017, as the stock warrants appreciated in value since their vesting, resulting in an income tax benefit to us when exercised.
Liquidity
Cash and Liquidity
As of March 31, 2018, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of $222.1 million, as compared to $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017.
We generally invest our excess cash balances in low-risk, short-term investments to limit our exposure to market and credit risks.
During the first quarter of 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement primarily to extend the term of the loan from February 2020 to March 2023 and obtain a reduction in the interest rate and other fees.
The 2018 Credit Agreement increased our liquidity and capital resources position by approximately $30 million.
As part of our 2018 Credit Agreement, we have a $200 million senior secured revolving loan facility with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires in March 2023.
As of March 31, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding on the 2018 Revolver.
The 2018 Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants and financial covenants.
As of March 31, 2018, and the date of this filing, we believe that we are in compliance with the provisions of the 2018 Credit Agreement.
We generally have ready access to substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment balances, but may face limitations on moving cash out of certain foreign jurisdictions due to currency controls.
As of March 31, 2018, we had $2.7 million of cash restricted as to use primarily to collateralize outstanding letters of credit.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Cash flows from operating activities for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 reflect the negative impacts of the payment of the 2017 and 2016 year-end accrued employee incentive compensation in the first quarter subsequent to the year-end accrual for these items.
We believe the above table illustrates our ability to generate recurring quarterly cash flows from our operations, and the importance of managing our working capital items.
Variations in our net cash provided by operating activities are generally related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities (related mostly to fluctuations in timing at quarter-end of client payments and changes in accrued expenses), and generally over longer periods of time, do not significantly impact our cash flows from operations.
Billed Trade Accounts Receivable
Management of our billed accounts receivable is one of the primary factors in maintaining consistently strong quarterly cash flows from operating activities.
Our billed trade accounts receivable balance includes significant billings for several non-revenue items (primarily postage, sales tax, and deferred revenue items).
As a result, we evaluate our performance in collecting our accounts receivable through our calculation of days billings outstanding (“DBO”) rather than a typical days sales outstanding (“DSO”) calculation.
Unbilled Trade Accounts Receivable
The unbilled accounts receivable balances above are primarily the result of several transactions with various milestone and contractual billing dates which have not yet been reached.
Unbilled accounts receivable are an inherent characteristic of certain software and professional services transactions and may fluctuate between quarters, as these types of transactions typically have scheduled invoicing terms over several quarters, as well as certain milestone billing events.
Accrued Employee Compensation
Accrued employee compensation decreased $17.0 million to $46.0 million as of March 31, 2018, from $63.0 million as of December 31, 2017, due primarily to the payment of the 2017 employee incentive compensation that was fully accrued at December 31, 2016, offset to a certain degree by the accrual for the 2018 employee incentive compensation.
 Cash Flows from Investing Activities
As a result of the adoption of ASC 606, $1.5 million of investments in client contracts have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities for the first quarter ended March 31, 2018.
 Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Our financing activities typically consist of activities associated with our common stock and our long-term debt.
Cash Dividends Paid on Common Stock.
During the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, the Board approved dividend payments totaling $7.1 million and $6.7 million, respectively.
During the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, we paid dividends of $7.4 million and $7.0 million, respectively (with the additional amounts attributed to dividends for incentive shares paid upon vesting).
Repurchase of Common Stock.
During the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, we repurchased 0.1 million shares of our common stock under the guidelines of our Stock Repurchase Program for $5.7 million and $5.4 million, respectively.
Outside of our Stock Repurchase Program, during the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, we repurchased from our employees and then cancelled 0.1 million and 0.2 million shares, respectively, of our common stock in each period for $6.2 million and $6.1 million, respectively, in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans.
Long-term Debt.
During the first quarter of 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement and as a result, we repaid the outstanding principal balance of $120.0 million and borrowed $150.0 million under the 2018 Credit Agreement, resulting in a net increase of available cash of $30.0 million.
As part of the refinancing, we paid $1.4 million of deferred financing costs.
Additionally, during the first quarter of 2017, we made principal repayments of $3.8 million.
See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for additional discussion of our long-term debt.
Capital Resources
Current Sources of Capital Resources.
•
•
Operating Cash Flows.
As described in the Liquidity section above, we believe we have the ability to generate strong cash flows to fund our operating activities and act as a source of funds for our capital resource needs.
•
Long-Term Debt\Revolving Credit Facility.
In March 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement and as a result, we repaid the outstanding term loan principal balance of $120.0 million and borrowed $150.0 million, resulting in a net increase in cash of $30 million (the 2018 Credit Agreement).
The 2018 Credit Agreement also includes a $200 million revolving loan facility (2018 Revolver).
As of March 31, 2018, we had no borrowing outstanding on our 2018 Revolver and had the entire $200 million available to us.
Our long-term debt obligations are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our Financial Statements.
•
Common Stock Repurchases.
We have made repurchases of our common stock in the past under our Stock Repurchase Program.
As of March 31, 2018, we had 6.1 million shares authorized for repurchase remaining under our Stock Repurchase Program.
Our 2018 Credit Agreement places certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our common stock.
During the first quarter of 2018, we repurchased 0.1 million shares of our common stock for $5.7 million (weighted-average price of $45.78 per share).
Under our Stock Repurchase Program, we may repurchase shares in the open market or a privately negotiated transaction, including through an ASR plan or under a SEC Rule 10b5-1 plan.
The actual timing and amount of the share repurchases will be dependent on the then current market conditions and other business-related factors.
Outside of our Stock Repurchase Program, during the first quarter of 2018, we repurchased from our employees and then cancelled 0.1 million shares of our common stock for $6.2 million in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans.
Our common stock repurchases are discussed in more detail in Note 9 to our Financial Statements.
•
Cash Dividends.
During the first quarter of 2018, the Board declared dividends totaling $7.1 million.
Going forward, we expect to pay cash dividends each year in March, June, September, and December, with the amount and timing subject to the Board’s approval.
•
Acquisitions.
In February 2018, we acquired Business Ink, a privately-held multi-channel business communications company based in Austin, Texas for approximately $70 million.
The acquisition was funded from currently available cash.
Our acquisition of Business Ink is discussed in more detail in Note 5 to our Financial Statements.
•
Capital Expenditures.
During the  first quarter of 2018, we spent $12.2 million on capital expenditures.
As of March 31, 2018, we had committed to purchase approximately $14 million of equipment.
•
Stock Warrants.
We have issued Stock Warrants with an exercise price of $26.68 per warrant to Comcast as an incentive for Comcast to convert new customer accounts to ACP.
Once vested, Comcast may exercise the Stock Warrants and elect either physical delivery of common shares or net share settlement (cashless exercise).
Alternatively, the exercise of the Stock Warrants may be settled with cash based solely on our approval, or if Comcast were to beneficially own or control in excess of 19.99% of the common stock or voting of the Company.
As of March 31, 2018, approximately 1.4 million Stock Warrants are outstanding, of which 0.4 million are vested.
The Stock Warrants are discussed in more detail in Note 9 to our Financial Statements.
•
During the next twelve months, there are no scheduled conversion triggers on our 2016 Convertible Notes.
As a result, we expect our required debt service cash outlay during the next twelve months for the 2016 Convertible Notes to be limited to interest payments of $9.8 million.
Our 2018 Credit Agreement mandatory repayments and the cash interest expense (based upon current interest rates) for the next twelve months is $7.5 million, and $6.4 million, respectively.
We have the ability to make prepayments on our 2018 Credit Agreement without penalty.
Our long-term debt obligations are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our Financial Statements.
In summary, we expect to continue to have material needs for capital resources going forward, as noted above.
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and our 2018 Revolver, together with cash expected to be generated in the future from our current operating activities, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital resource requirements for at least the next twelve months.
We also believe we could obtain additional capital through other debt sources which may be available to us if deemed appropriate.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
The following table presents information with respect to purchases of company common stock made during the first quarter of 2018 by CSG Systems International, Inc. or any “affiliated purchaser” of CSG Systems International, Inc., as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange Act.
The total number of shares purchased that are not part of the Stock Repurchase Program represents shares purchased and cancelled in connection with stock incentive plans.
See Note 9 to our Financial Statements for additional information regarding our share repurchases.
