fls.txt



item1.txt
The acquisition accounting and the related useful lives and amortization for the IOTA and Lucid acquisitions are preliminary as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired.
The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio (“Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization expense (“EBITDA”), as such terms are defined in the Revolving Credit Facility agreement.
Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S.
The column marked “Parent” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands.
The Company establishes reserves for legal claims when associated costs become probable and can be reasonably estimated.
The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of unamortized bond discount and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period.
The column marked “Subsidiary Issuer” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL.
The Company accounts for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors of the Company, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of the Company's equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into the Company's director deferred compensation plan or the Company's supplemental deferred savings plan.
The Revolving Credit Facility allows for a Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50, subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement.
The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio (“Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization expense (“EBITDA”), as such terms are defined in the Revolving Credit Facility agreement.
Base Rate advances bear interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings.
Preliminary amounts related to the acquisition accounting are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.


item2.txt
products.
On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Interest expense, net, was $8.4 million and $8.1 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Adjusted operating profit decreased by $12.5 million, or 8.4%, to $135.8 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with $148.3 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.250%.
Refer to the Subsequent Events footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 primarily to repurchase two million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock for $298.4 million, to fund acquisitions of $163.5 million, to fund capital expenditures of $32.2 million, to pay dividends to stockholders of $16.2 million, and to pay employee taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $7.2 million.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
The decrease was due primarily to share repurchases, the payment of dividends, shares withheld for employee taxes on vested restricted stock grants, and foreign currency translation adjustments, partially offset by net income earned in the period, stock issuances resulting primarily from the exercise of stock options, and amortization of pension plan prior service costs and actuarial losses.


item3.txt



item4.txt
During the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company completed its acquisitions of IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”) and Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”).


part2.txt
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to LIBOR for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on the Company’s leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.875% to 1.250%.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Item 2.


