fls.txt



item1.txt
These cash flows include debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance.
In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques.
Lucid Design Group, Inc.
In addition, the equity method of accounting was used to calculate investments in subsidiaries.
Further details regarding each of these award programs and our share-based payments are included within the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
However, we cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
We had no borrowings outstanding under the current Revolving Credit Facility or Term Loan Facility as of February 28, 2019.
For sales designated free on board destination, customers take control when a product is delivered to the customer’s delivery site.
The base rate applicable margin is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 0.0% to 0.25%.
However, the acquisition accounting for IOTA is deemed provisional as we continue to gather information related to the identification and valuation of certain deferred tax items.
Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations.
We account for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of our equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into our director deferred compensation plan or our supplemental deferred savings plan.
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
Revenue recognized from beginning balances of contract liabilities during the six months ended February 28, 2019 totaled $3.1 million.
2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets obtained in an acquisition is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets.


item2.txt
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Interest expense, net, was $8.6 million and $8.0 million for the three months ended February 28, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the six months ended February 28, 2019 primarily to repurchase 0.4 million shares of our outstanding common stock for $48.7 million, fund capital expenditures of $24.9 million, pay dividends to stockholders of $10.5 million, and pay withholding taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $4.3 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended February 28, 2019 increased $0.10, or 5.3%, to $1.99 compared with $1.89 for the prior-year period.
On June 29, 2018, we entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks that provides us with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million Term Loan Facility.
Fiscal 2019 results were impacted by the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in a decrease to revenues, gross profit, and operating profit of $4.0 million, $2.2 million, and $2.4 million, respectively, during the six months ended February 28, 2019.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
The effective income tax rate for the three months ended February 28, 2018 was significantly impacted by the provisions of the TCJA, which was enacted during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The Unsecured Notes bear interest at a rate of 6% per annum and were issued at a price equal to 99.797% of their face value and for a term of ten years.
We expect to invest approximately 1.5% of net sales primarily for new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology capabilities during fiscal 2019.
This decrease reflects higher net income tax expense, partially offset by a reduced share count.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Amended and Restated Severance Agreement between Acuity Brands, Inc. and Vernon J. Nagel dated March 29, 2019.
Amended and Restated Severance Agreement between Acuity Brands, Inc. and Vernon J. Nagel dated March 29, 2019.
 .LABXBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.


