fls.txt



item1.txt
Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting.
Accordingly, a comparison of backlog orders from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of future shipments.
Additionally, we had no borrowings outstanding under our previous credit facility as of November 30, 2017.
The Eurocurrency applicable margin is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.375%.
Information for prior years presented has not been restated and continues to reflect the authoritative accounting standards in effect for those periods.
The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest expense coverage ratio (“Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio”) and a leverage ratio (“Maximum Leverage Ratio”) of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”), as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement.
Current deferred revenues are included within Other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We allocate the expected consideration to be collected to each distinct performance obligation based on its standalone selling price.
The refund liabilities associated with these programs totaled $51.4 million and $43.9 million as of November 30, 2018 and September 1, 2018, respectively, and are reflected within Other accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Risk Factors of our Form 10-K.
No acquisitions were completed during the current quarter.
Further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within our Form 10-K.
Non-current deferred revenues primarily consist of long-term service-type warranties, which are typically recognized ratably as revenue between five and ten years from the date of sale, and are included within Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows.
At the time revenue is recognized, we record a refund liability for the expected value of future returns primarily based on historical experience, specific notification of pending returns, or based on contractual terms with the respective customers.
As required by the standard, proceeds from these policies are now classified as cash inflows from investing activities.


item2.txt
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
We are one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
Third-party forecasts and leading indicators suggest that the North American lighting market, our primary market, will increase in the low-single digit range in fiscal 2019.
Item 2.
 (b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
We believe that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on our cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under financing arrangements.
Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us,” or similar references).
The increase in net income resulted primarily from a lower provision for income taxes, partially offset by decreased operating profit.
Item 2.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (c)Acuity Brands, Inc.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.


