fls.txt



item1.txt
Software sales include licenses for software, data usage fees, and software as a service arrangements, which generally extend for one year or less.
 (c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
 (b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the LIBOR or screen rate for the applicable currency plus an applicable margin.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASU 2014-09”), which replaced the existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.
Current deferred revenues are included within Other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Lastly, the column listed as “Non-Guarantors” includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries.
Although the Unsecured Notes will mature within one year from May 31, 2019, we have the ability and intent to refinance these borrowings using availability under our Term Loan Facility, subject to satisfying the applicable conditions precedent.
The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by our leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Software sales include licenses for software, data usage fees, and software as a service arrangements, which generally extend for one year or less.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
The standard allows changes to be applied either retrospectively or prospectively.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
For sales designated free on board destination, customers take control when a product is delivered to the customer’s delivery site.
Our rights related to collections from customers are unconditional and are reflected within Accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.


item2.txt
Our principal office is located in Atlanta, Georgia.
Adjusted operating profit margin decreased to 14.3% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with 14.5% for the year-ago period.
The increase in borrowing capacity provides us with the resources to support growth opportunities, including acquisitions, accommodate the current stock repurchase program, of which 4.8 million shares remain available for repurchase as of July 2, 2019, and refinance our outstanding senior unsecured notes that mature in late calendar 2019.
We currently estimate that our blended consolidated effective income tax rate, before any discrete items, will approximate 22% to 24% for fiscal 2019.
As such, this amount is reflected within Long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 2019.
We currently expect to invest approximately 1.5% of net sales in capital expenditures during fiscal 2019.
We currently estimate that our blended consolidated effective income tax rate, before any discrete items, will approximate 22% to 24% for fiscal 2019.
Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this quarterly report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Further details regarding our special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.


