fls.txt
Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and are specifically incorporated herein by reference.


item1.txt
Additionally, the implementation team is in the process of identifying appropriate changes to the Company's business processes, systems, and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard.
However, the Company cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
particularly where the matters involve indeterminate claims for monetary damages and are in the stages of the proceedings where key factual and legal issues have not been resolved.
Additionally, the implementation team is in the process of identifying appropriate changes to the Company's business processes, systems, and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard.
Based on the implementation team's current findings and the overall expected immaterial impact of adoption, the implementation team is currently evaluating which adoption method would provide the most meaningful information to the Company's stakeholders.
The Company determines fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing an asset or liability.
On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Lucid Design Group, Inc. (“Lucid”).
On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Lucid Design Group, Inc. (“Lucid”).
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
particularly where the matters involve indeterminate claims for monetary damages and are in the stages of the proceedings where key factual and legal issues have not been resolved.
Amounts reflected in the current period are not finalized as the Company continues to evaluate the impact of the TCJA on these components of the Company's ultimate tax liability.
2016-02, Leases (“ASU 2016-02”), which requires lessees to include most leases on the balance sheet.
Item 1.Financial Statements


item2.txt
EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
The Company’s effective income tax rate was (23.1)% and 32.3% for the three months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In March 2018, the Board authorized the repurchase of six million shares, which includes the remaining 0.8 million shares available for repurchase under the June 2017 authorization.
Shares repurchased under the authorization may be retired or used for general corporate purposes, which may include transactions related to the Company’s share-based compensation and employee benefit plans.
The effective income rate for the six months ended February 28, 2018 was significantly impacted by the TCJA, which was enacted during the second quarter.
The Company reported net miscellaneous expense of $0.9 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared with net miscellaneous income of $7.3 million in the prior-year period.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the six months ended February 28, 2018 increased $0.08, or 2.1%, to $3.84 compared with $3.76 for the prior-year period.
 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
The increase in net income resulted primarily from the benefit from income taxes recognized during the quarter related to the TCJA, partially offset by a decrease in operating profit.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
 (b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 (c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.


