fls.txt
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier relationships and prices; competition; ability to realize anticipated benefits from initiatives taken and timing of benefits; market demand; litigation and other contingent liabilities; and economic, political, governmental, and technological factors affecting the Company.


item1.txt
There were no material changes to the valuation methods or assumptions used to determine fair values during the current period.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the London Inter Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) for the applicable currency plus a margin as determined by the Company's leverage ratio (“Applicable Margin”).
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2).
If so, the transaction does not qualify as a business.
The column marked “Parent” represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands.
5.Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Further discussion of the Company's long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company’s Form 10-K.
Refer to the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote for additional information regarding retrospective reclassifications related to accounting standards adopted in the current year.
This advisory vote will occur annually until the Board otherwise elects a different frequency for such non-binding, advisory votes or until another non-binding, advisory stockholder vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation occurs.
Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
The implementation team reports the findings and progress of the project to management on a frequent basis and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2016-02 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2020.
EXHIBIT 10(iii)A(1)Amended and Restated Acuity Brands, Inc. 2012 Omnibus Stock Incentive Compensation Plan.
No material reclassifications occurred during the current period.


item2.txt
Total debt outstanding was $356.9 million at November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, and consisted primarily of fixed-rate obligations.
The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets.
The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable on August 27, 2019.
The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.
The current capital structure of the Company is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of its stockholders.
The current capital structure of the Company is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of its stockholders.
The Company expects to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
Management currently estimates that the Company’s blended consolidated effective income tax rate (“tax rate”) for full-year fiscal 2018 will approximate 26 to 28% before discrete items, compared with nearly 35% for the prior year.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.


part2.txt
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reference is made to Annex B of the registrant’s Proxy Statement as filed with the Commission on November 21,2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
 (c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.


