item1.txt
The fiscal year for ClearOne is the 12 months ending on December 31.
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There have been no changes to these policies during the three months ended March 31, 2018 that are of significance or potential significance to the Company except for the change in revenue recognition policy described below.
Prior to our change in accounting policy, revenue from product sales to distributors was not recognized until the return privilege had expired or until it can be determined with reasonable certainty that the return privilege had expired, which approximated when the product was sold-through to customers of our distributors (dealers, system integrators, value-added resellers, and end-users), rather than when the product was initially shipped to a distributor.
At each quarter-end, we evaluated the inventory in the distribution channel through information provided by our distributors.
The level of inventory in the channel fluctuated up or down each quarter based upon our distributors’ individual operations.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company’s standard terms and conditions at the time of acceptance of purchase orders apply.
The Company considers the customer purchase orders, governed by sales agreements or the Company’s standard terms and conditions, to be the contract with the customer.
The Company evaluates certain factors including the customer’s ability to pay (or credit risk).
In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled.
Sales to distributors, are typically made pursuant to agreements that provide return rights with respect to discontinued or slow-moving products, referred to as stock rotation.
Although payment terms vary, most distributor agreements require payment within 45 days of invoicing.
Frequently, the Company receives orders with multiple delivery dates that may extend across reporting periods.
Since each delivery constitutes a performance obligation, the Company allocates the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation based on the stand-alone selling price of the products.
The Company invoices the customer for each delivery upon shipment and recognizes revenues in accordance with delivery terms.
The ASU will require organizations that lease assets (lessees) to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by all leases with terms of more than 12 months.
The Company has not yet selected a transition method and is currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on the consolidated financial statements.
ASU 2016-15 became effective for the Company on January 1, 2018.
Current finished goods did not include distributor channel inventories in the amounts of approximately $1,555 as of December 31, 2017.
Net loss incurred on valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value and write-off of obsolete inventory during the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $255.
During the three months ended March 31, 2017 benefit from the reduction of reserves for valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value was $34.
The Company’s share-based incentive plans offering stock options are offered under the Company’s 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”), which was restated and approved by the shareholders on December 12, 2015.
On March 9, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $10,000 of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program.
In connection with the repurchase authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors.
On March 1, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company renewed and extended the repurchase program for up to an additional $10,000 of common stock over the next twelve months.
In connection with the repurchase extension authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors.
On February 21, 2018, the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.07 per share of ClearOne common stock.
On June 13, 2018, the Company announced the suspension of its dividend program.
The Company’s forecasted effective tax benefit rate at March 31, 2018 is 27.0%, a 16.2% increase from the 10.8% effective tax rate recorded at December 31, 2017.
The 16.2% increase is primarily due to the enactment in 2017 of the Tax Cuts and Jobs act, which resulted in a lower corporate tax rate and a revaluation of the Company's net deferred tax assets.
The forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 27.0% excludes jurisdictions for which no benefit from forecasted current year losses is anticipated.
Including losses from such jurisdictions results in a forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 26.0%.
Our forecasted effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could change, to the extent that earnings in countries with tax rates that differ from that of the U.S. differ from amounts anticipated at March 31, 2018.
On June 13, 2018, the Company announced suspension of its quarterly cash dividend program.
There have been no material developments in the legal proceedings described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.


item2.txt
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we were awarded four more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile and echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array.
Overall revenue declined in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
Gross profit margin decrease was primarily due to increase in inventory obsolescence costs and decline in licensing revenues.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with our Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents.
The patent infringement has also affected revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones and ceiling microphones.
Our strength in professional audio visual space is largely due to our industry leading conferencing technologies and the full suite of professional microphone products, especially Beamforming Microphone Arrays.
Despite our strong leadership position in the professional audio communications products market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market.
Revenue from our video products in the overall revenue mix has been improving on the back of a strong growth for our video products in 2016 that had continued in 2017.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance based media collaboration product and our high-end audio conferencing technology to provide growth in revenue in the near future.
We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware based video conferencing systems to software based video conferencing applications.
We derive a large portion of our revenue (about 49%) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future.
Our revenue decreased by $4.4 million, or 38%, to $7.3 million in 2018-Q1 compared to $11.7 million in 2017-Q1.
All product categories witnessed revenue declines with revenue declines of 43%, 23% and 20% for professional audio conferencing, unified communication end points and video products, respectively.
The decline in revenue from professional audio conferencing products was mostly due to slower adoption of our Converge Pro 2 platform, largely caused by our competitors’ product offering that we believe directly infringes our strategic patents and due to a decline in licensing revenue.
The share of professional audio communications products (which includes microphone products but not premium products) in our product mix declined from 74% in 2017-Q1 to 68% in 2018-Q1.
Share of video products in the revenue increased from 14% in 2017-Q1 to 18% in 2018-Q1 and share of UC end points in the revenue increased from 12% in 2017-Q1 to 14% in 2018-Q1.
During 2018-Q1, revenue declined across all regions except Canada and Australia.
The revenue declines for Asia Pacific including Middle East, Europe and Africa, and Americas were 28%, 16% and 44%, respectively.
Cost of goods sold (“COGS”) includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the manufacture of our products (including material and direct labor), our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses.
Our working capital was $24.9 million and $23.3 million as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
We also believe that the measures taken by us will yield higher revenues in the future.
We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans.
We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs.
In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth.
At March 31, 2018, we had inventory totaling $23.2 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $8.6 million.
Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial position are based upon our unaudited consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
We believe certain of our accounting policies are critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations.
Except with respect to our revenue recognition practices included in Note 1.
On March 1, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company renewed and extended the repurchase program for up to an additional $10 million of common stock over the next twelve months.
In connection with the repurchase extension authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors.


item4.txt
Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.
The remediation plan will include an assessment of personnel levels and responsibilities, additional training of financial reporting personnel and ability to handle new requirements and projects on a timely basis with respect to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and public company reporting requirements and timelines.
The material weakness will be fully remediated when, in the opinion of management, the control processes have been operating for a sufficient period of time to provide reasonable assurance as to their effectiveness.


part2.txt
There have been no material developments in the legal proceedings described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


