item1.txt
The fiscal year for ClearOne is the 12 months ending on December 31.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries.
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There have been no changes to these policies during the six months ended June 30, 2018 that are of significance or potential significance to the Company except for the change in revenue recognition policy described below.
Prior to our change in accounting policy, revenue from product sales to distributors was not recognized until the return privilege had expired or until it can be determined with reasonable certainty that the return privilege had expired, which approximated when the product was sold-through to customers of our distributors (dealers, system integrators, value-added resellers, and end-users), rather than when the product was initially shipped to a distributor.
At each quarter-end, we evaluated the inventory in the distribution channel through information provided by our distributors.
The level of inventory in the channel fluctuated up or down each quarter based upon our distributors’ individual operations.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company’s standard terms and conditions at the time of acceptance of purchase orders apply.
The Company considers the customer purchase orders, governed by sales agreements or the Company’s standard terms and conditions, to be the contract with the customer.
The Company evaluates certain factors including the customer’s ability to pay (or credit risk).
In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled.
Sales to distributors, are typically made pursuant to agreements that provide return rights with respect to discontinued or slow-moving products, referred to as stock rotation.
Sales to distributors can also be subject to price adjustment on certain products, primarily for distributors with drop-shipping rights.
Although payment terms vary, most distributor agreements require payment within 45 days of invoicing.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation.
The Company recognizes revenue from sales agreements upon transferring control of a product to the customer.
This typically occurs when products are shipped or delivered, depending on the delivery terms, or when products that are consigned at customer locations are sold to dealers or end users.
Revenue recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 for equipment sales was $6,803 and $13,900, respectively, and for software, licenses, etc.
Provisions for discounts and rebates to customers, estimated returns and allowances, ship and credit claims and other adjustments are provided for in the same period the related revenues are recognized, and are netted against revenues.
For returns, the Company recognizes a related asset for the right to recover returned products with a corresponding reduction to cost of goods sold.
The Company reviews warranty and related claims activity and records provisions, as necessary.
Frequently, the Company receives orders with multiple delivery dates that may extend across reporting periods.
Since each delivery constitutes a performance obligation, the Company allocates the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation based on the stand-alone selling price of the products.
The Company invoices the customer for each delivery upon shipment and recognizes revenues in accordance with delivery terms.
Although payment terms vary, distributors typically pay within 45 days of invoicing and dealers pay within 30 days of invoicing.
The ASU will require organizations that lease assets (lessees) to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by all leases with terms of more than 12 months.
The Company has not yet selected a transition method and is currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on the consolidated financial statements.
ASU 2016-15 became effective for the Company on January 1, 2018.
Current finished goods did not include distributor channel inventories in the amounts of approximately $1,555 as of December 31, 2017.
Distributor channel inventories represented inventories at distributors and other customers where revenue recognition criteria had not yet been achieved.
The Company’s share-based incentive plans offering stock options are offered under the Company’s 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”), which was restated and approved by the shareholders on December 12, 2015.
Provisions of the restated 2007 Plan include the granting of up to 2,000,000 incentive and non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units.
On March 9, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $10,000 of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program.
In connection with the repurchase authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors.
On March 1, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company renewed and extended the repurchase program for up to an additional $10,000 of common stock over the next twelve months.
In connection with the repurchase extension authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors.
On February 21, 2018, the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.07 per share of ClearOne common stock.
On June 13, 2018, the Company announced the suspension of its dividend program.
Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
There have been no material developments in the legal proceedings described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.


item2.txt
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
In June 2018, at our industry’s largest trade show in North America, we introduced new audio products including significant additions to our CONVERGE® 2 audio conferencing platform, ceiling microphone array product line, and wireless microphone systems in the newly FCC allocated 537-563 MHz range.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 seven more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile, echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array, audio distribution over local area networks, and USB to Bluetooth audio bridging were issued to us.
While focusing on strategic innovation that we believe will strengthen our competitive position, and accelerated product development, we have also planned and initiated a company-wide cost cutting programs.
Overall revenue declined in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the three months and six months ended June 30, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 47% during the three months ended June 30, 2018 from 59% for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues and due to reduced overhead absorption into inventory as we continue to reduce our net spend on inventory.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 52% during the six months ended June 30, 2018 from 58% for the six months ended June 30, 2017.
Gross profit margin decrease was primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues and due to reduced overhead absorption into inventory.
The proportion of overhead costs absorbed into inventory has declined due to a sharp decline in our inventory purchasing activity causing increased amounts of overhead costs to be expensed.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents.
The patent infringement also has had a material adverse effect on our revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones, ceiling microphones and video products.
Our revenues in the near term may be materially adversely affected by the resignation of a large US distributor in June 2018.
Our strength in professional audio visual space is largely due to our industry leading conferencing technologies and the full suite of professional microphone products, especially Beamforming Microphone Arrays.
Despite our strong leadership position in the professional audio communications products market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the infringement of our patents by competitors, the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market.
We derive a large portion of our revenue (about 48%) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future.
Our revenue decreased by $3.3 million, or 32%, to $7.0 million in 2018-Q2 compared to $10.3 million in 2017-Q2.
All product categories witnessed revenue declines with revenue declines of 35%, 15% and 30% for professional audio conferencing, unified communication end points and video products, respectively.
The decline in revenue from professional audio conferencing products was mostly due to slower adoption of our Converge Pro 2 platform, largely caused by our competitors’ product offering that we believe directly infringes our strategic patents and due to a decline in licensing revenue.
The share of professional audio communications products (which includes microphone products but not premium products) in our product mix declined from 73% in 2017-Q2 to 70% in 2018-Q2.
Share of video products revenue during 2018-Q2 remained the same at 16% compared to 2017-Q2 and share of UC end points revenue increased from 11% in 2017-Q2 to 14% in 2018-Q2.
During 2018-Q2, revenue declined across all regions except China and Latin America.
The revenue declines for Asia Pacific including Middle East, Europe and Africa, and Americas were 16%, 10% and 41%, respectively.
Cost of goods sold (“COGS”) includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the manufacture of our products (including material and direct labor), our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses.
Our gross profit for 2018-Q2 was approximately $3.3 million or 47% compared to approximately $6.1 million, or 59%, for 2017-Q2.
Gross margin for 2018-Q2 declined due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues and reduced overhead absorption into inventory.
The proportion of overheads absorbed into inventory has declined due to a sharp decline in our inventory purchasing activity causing increased amounts of overheads to be expensed as against being carried with our inventory.
Even though the total overhead spending has not increased, the combination of lower revenues and lower absorption has caused gross margin as a percentage of revenue to decline.
Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional audio conferencing products.
Our long-term inventory includes approximately $2.7 million of wireless microphones related finished goods and assemblies, $2.7 million of Converge Pro 2 products and about $1.1 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products.
Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell these long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory.
Other income reduced in 2018-Q2 and 2018-H1 due to reduction in interest income caused by decline in the investment holdings and due to higher realized losses on liquidated investments.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we accrued income taxes at the forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 26.8% as compared to the forecasted effective tax rate of 127% used during the six months ended June 30, 2017.
As of June 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $4.1 compared to $5.6 million as of December 31, 2017.
We have already incurred approximately $6.2 million from 2016 through June 30, 2018 towards this litigation and may be required to incur more to continue to enforce our patents.
At June 30, 2018, we had inventory totaling $22.7 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $8.4 million.
This compares to total inventories of $24.7 million and non-current inventory of $8.7 million as of December 31, 2017.
Our non-current inventory includes approximately $2.7 million of wireless microphones related finished goods and assemblies, $2.7 million of Converge Pro 2 products and about $1.1 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products.
Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell these long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory.


item4.txt
Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.
The remediation plan will include an assessment of personnel levels and responsibilities, additional training of financial reporting personnel and ability to handle new requirements and projects on a timely basis with respect to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and public company reporting requirements and timelines.
The material weakness will be fully remediated when, in the opinion of management, the control processes have been operating for a sufficient period of time to provide reasonable assurance as to their effectiveness.


