item1.txt
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There have been no changes to these policies during the six months ended June 30, 2019 that are of significance or potential significance to the Company except for the change in accounting for leases as described below.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and operating lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Basic earnings (loss) per common share is the amount of net earnings (loss) for the period available to each weighted-average share of common stock outstanding during the reporting period.
Diluted earnings (loss) per common share is the amount of earnings (loss) for the period available to each weighted-average share of common stock outstanding during the reporting period and to each share of potential common stock outstanding during the period, unless inclusion of potential common stock would have an anti-dilutive effect.
Rent expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease taking into account future rent escalation and holiday periods.
We occupy a 5,000 square-foot facility in Gainesville, Florida under the terms of an operating lease that expires in February 2021 with the possibility of renewing the lease for 10 more years.
The Gainesville facility is used primarily to support our research and development activities.
We currently occupy a 21,443 square-foot facility in Salt Lake City, Utah under the terms of an operating lease expiring in March 2024, with an option to extend for additional five years.
The facility supports our principal administrative, sales, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities.
We occupy a 10,700 square-foot warehouse in Shenzhen, China under the terms of an operating lease expiring in September 2019, which serves as manufacturing support center for Asia.
We occupy a 7,070 square-foot facility in Austin, Texas - under the terms of an operating lease expiring in October 2019.
This facility supports our sales, marketing, customer support, and research and development activities.
We occupy a 3,068 square-foot facility in Zaragoza, Spain under the terms of an operating lease expiring in March 2020.
We occupy a 6,175 square-foot facility in Chennai, India - under the terms of an operating lease expiring in August 2021.
This facility supports our administrative, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities.
We occupy a 40,000 square-foot warehouse in Salt Lake City, Utah under the terms of an operating lease expiring in April 2025, which serves as our primary inventory fulfillment and repair center.
The Company’s share-based incentive plans offering stock options are offered under the Company’s 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”), which was restated and approved by the shareholders on December 12, 2015.
Provisions of the restated 2007 Plan include the granting of up to 2,000,000 incentive and non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units.
Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.


item2.txt
ClearOne is a global Company that designs, develops and sells conferencing, collaboration, and AV networking solutions for voice and visual communications.
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
It’s a suite that unifies messaging, calls and meetings and will energize workflows and increase productivity for everyone involved in the enterprise.
We also continued our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path.
Overall revenue declined in the second quarter of 2019 when compared to the second quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
Net loss decreased marginally from $2.2 million in the second quarter of 2018 to $2.1 million in the second quarter of 2019.
The decrease in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced operating expenses offset by reduced gross profit and tax benefit.
Overall revenue declined in the first six months of 2019 when compared to same period in 2018, with declines seen in all product categories, except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
We believe the revenue decline in video products was caused partially by increased competition in the space as well as due to reduced attention from our partners caused by the alternatives made available through infringement of our patents.
Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to increased material costs and reduction of higher margin professional audio conferencing products in the revenue mix.
Net loss during the first six months of 2019 increased to $4.4 million from $4.0 million during the same period in 2018.
The increase in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced tax benefit and gross profit partially offset by reduced operating expenses.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
Our competitors vary within each product category.
Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues.
Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products.
Despite our strong leadership position in the installed professional audio conferencing market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market due to higher margins.
Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future.
We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware-based video conferencing systems to software-based video conferencing applications.
We derive a major portion of our revenue (approximately 47% for the year ended December 31, 2018) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future.
However, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk if the U.S. dollar is strong against other currencies as it will make U.S. Dollar denominated prices of our products less competitive.
Our revenue decreased to $6.4 million in 2019-Q2 compared to $7.0 million in 2018-Q2.
The highest decline was seen in the audio conferencing category with a 20% decline followed by microphones with a marginal 1% decline.
Revenue from video products grew by 16% on the back of growth in sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras and cloud-based videoconferencing services.
The decline in the audio conferencing category was due to a decline in all subcategories including professional installed audio conferencing, personal conferencing and tabletop conferencing.
The decline in microphones category was due to a decline in beamforming microphones offset by increase in revenue from wireless mics.
The on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and microphones categories.
The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 52% in 2018-Q2 to 45% in 2019-Q2.
Share of video products in the revenue mix increased from 16% to 20%.
During 2019-Q2 revenue declined in the USA, Canada, Australia, Japan, China and Northern Europe offset by revenue increases in the Middle East, India, South Asia, South Korea and Central Europe and Southern Europe.
Asia Pacific, including the Middle East, increased by 6%, Europe and Africa declined by 8% and the Americas declined by 15%.
Our revenue decreased to $12.7 million in 2019-H1 compared to $14.3 million in 2018-H1.
The highest decline was seen in audio conferencing category with 23% decline followed by microphones with 5% decline.
Revenue from video products grew by 14% on the back of growth in sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras, cloud-based videoconferencing services and network media streaming products.
The decline in audio conferencing category was due to a decline in all subcategories including professional installed audio conferencing, personal conferencing and tabletop conferencing.
The decline in microphones category was due to a decline in beamforming microphones and ceiling microphones offset by increase in revenue from wireless mics.
The on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and microphones categories.
The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 51% in 2018-H1 to 44% in 2019-H1.
Share of video products in the revenue mix increased from 17% to 22%.
During 2019-H1 revenue declined in all regions except the Middle East, India, South Asia and Central Europe and Southern Europe.
We believe, although there can be no assurance, that we will return to a growth path if we are able to successfully implement our strategic initiatives focused on product innovation, cost reduction and defense of our intellectual property.
Cost of goods sold includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the repackaging of our products, our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses.
Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional installed audio-conferencing products.
Our long-term inventory includes approximately $2.0 million of wireless microphone-related finished goods and assemblies, $1.6 million of Converge Pro 2 products and about $1.7 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products.
Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell these long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory.
We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans.
We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs.


item4.txt
Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third-party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.
The remediation plan will include an assessment of personnel levels and responsibilities, additional training of financial reporting personnel and ability to handle new requirements and projects on a timely basis with respect to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and public company reporting requirements and timelines.
The material weakness will be fully remediated when, in the opinion of management, the control processes have been operating for a sufficient period of time to provide reasonable assurance as to their effectiveness.


part2.txt
On February 15, 2019, the Company filed a petition for inter partes review of Shure’s U.S. Patent No. 9,565,493 (“’493 Patent”), arguing that all claims of the ’493 Patent should be cancelled in light of several prior art references, including ClearOne’s U.S. Patent No. 9,813,806 (the “’806 Patent”).
Shure has opposed the petition, and a decision by the Patent Trial and Appeal Board whether to institute inter partes review is expected by August 20, 2019.


