item1.txt
The fiscal year for ClearOne is the 12 months ending on December 31.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries.
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results for a full-year period.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There have been no changes to these policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 that are of significance or potential significance to the Company except for the change in revenue recognition policy described below.
Prior to our change in accounting policy, revenue from product sales to distributors was not recognized until the return privilege had expired or until it can be determined with reasonable certainty that the return privilege had expired, which approximated when the product was sold-through to customers of our distributors (dealers, system integrators, value-added resellers, and end-users), rather than when the product was initially shipped to a distributor.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company’s standard terms and conditions at the time of acceptance of purchase orders apply.
The Company considers the customer purchase orders, governed by sales agreements or the Company’s standard terms and conditions, to be the contract with the customer.
The Company evaluates certain factors including the customer’s ability to pay (or credit risk).
Frequently, the Company receives orders with multiple delivery dates that may extend across reporting periods.
Since each delivery constitutes a performance obligation, the Company allocates the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation based on the stand-alone selling price of the products.
The Company invoices the customer for each delivery upon shipment and recognizes revenues in accordance with delivery terms.
The ASU will require organizations that lease assets (lessees) to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by all leases with terms of more than 12 months.
The Company has not yet selected a transition method and is currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on the consolidated financial statements.
ASU 2016-15 became effective for the Company on January 1, 2018.
Net loss incurred on valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value and write-off of obsolete inventory during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $45 and $471, respectively.
During the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2017 there was no net loss incurred on valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value and write-off of obsolete inventory.
The Company’s share-based incentive plans offering stock options are offered under the Company’s 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”), which was restated and approved by the shareholders on December 12, 2015.
On March 9, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $10,000 of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program.
In connection with the repurchase authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors.
On March 1, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company renewed and extended the repurchase program for up to an additional $10,000 of common stock over the next twelve months.
In connection with the repurchase extension authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors.
On February 21, 2018, the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.07 per share of ClearOne common stock.
Based on the foregoing criteria, the Company determined that it no longer meets the “more likely than not” threshold that net operating losses, tax credits and other deferred tax assets will be realized.
Accordingly, the Company recorded a full valuation allowance at September 30, 2018.
The Company’s forecasted effective tax benefit rate at September 30, 2018 is 0%, as compared to the 10.8% effective tax rate recorded at December 31, 2017.
The 10.8% decrease is primarily due to not recognizing benefit in 2018-Q3 for pre-tax losses and credits, as a result of the Company’s full valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets.
The Company recorded discrete tax expense of $6.5M in 2018-Q3, due primarily to the recording of a full valuation allowance on the Company’s net deferred tax assets.
There have been no material developments in the legal proceedings described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.


item2.txt
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, seven more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile, echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array, audio distribution over local area networks, and USB to Bluetooth audio bridging were issued to us.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we continued our serious litigation efforts to stop infringement of two of our strategic patents.
We introduced a new ceiling microphone array product line and made improvements to our VIEW Pro and Converge Pro 2 product lines.
We also launched many new products including Collaborate Space, Converge Amplifier and wireless microphone systems in 537-563 MHz range at our industry’s largest trade show in North America.
We have also been focusing on company-wide cost cutting programs and speeding up product development that we believe will enable us to surpass our competitors.
Overall revenue declined in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues and reduced overhead absorption into inventory as we continue to reduce our net spend on inventory.
Gross profit margin decrease was primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues, and reduced overhead absorption into inventory.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with our Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents.
The patent infringement also has had a material adverse effect on revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones, ceiling microphones and video products.
Our strength in the professional audio visual space is largely due to our industry leading conferencing technologies and the full suite of professional microphone products, especially Beamforming Microphone Arrays.
Despite our strong leadership position in the professional audio communications products market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the infringement of our patents by competitors, the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market.
Our revenue decreased by $3.9 million, or 37%, to $6.7 million in 2018-Q3 compared to $10.6 million in 2017-Q3.
All product categories witnessed revenue declines with revenue declines of 31%, 28% and 55% for professional audio conferencing, unified communication end points and video products, respectively.
The decline in revenue from professional audio conferencing products was mostly due to slower adoption of our Converge Pro 2 platform, largely caused by our competitors’ product offering that we believe directly infringes our strategic patents and due to a decline in licensing revenue.
The share of professional audio communications products (which includes microphone products but not premium products) in our product mix increased from 66% in 2017-Q3 to 72% in 2018-Q3.
Share of video products in the revenue during 2018-Q3 decreased from 24% in 2017-Q3 to 17% in 2018-Q3.
Share of UC end points in the revenue increased from 10% in 2017-Q3 to 12% in 2018-Q3.
During 2018-Q3, revenue declined across all regions except Canada and parts of Europe.
The revenue declines for Asia Pacific including Middle East, Europe and Africa, and Americas were 53%, 13% and 30%, respectively.
Cost of goods sold (“COGS”) includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the manufacture of our products (including material and direct labor), our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses.
Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional audio conferencing products.
Our long-term inventory includes approximately $2.7 million of wireless microphones related finished goods and assemblies, $2.4 million of Converge Pro 2 products and about $1.1 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products.
Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell these long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory.
The following contains a more detailed discussion of expenses related to sales and marketing, research and product development, general and administrative, and other items.
We have already incurred approximately $7.4 million in expenses from 2016 through September 30, 2018 towards this litigation and may be required to incur more to continue to enforce our patents.
At September 30, 2018, we had inventory totaling $21.6 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $8.3 million.
Our non-current inventory includes approximately $2.7 million of wireless microphones related finished goods and assemblies, $2.4 million of Converge Pro 2 products and about $1.1 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products.
Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell these long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory.


item4.txt
Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.
The remediation plan will include an assessment of personnel levels and responsibilities, additional training of financial reporting personnel and ability to handle new requirements and projects on a timely basis with respect to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and public company reporting requirements and timelines.
The material weakness will be fully remediated when, in the opinion of management, the control processes have been operating for a sufficient period of time to provide reasonable assurance as to their effectiveness.


part2.txt
There have been no material developments in the legal proceedings described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Upon expiry of this repurchase program in March 2018, the program was not renewed again.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


