item1.txt
The fiscal year for ClearOne is the twelve months ending on December 31.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
Certain information and footnote disclosures that are usually included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) have been either condensed or omitted in accordance with SEC rules and regulations.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, and the cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results for a full-year period.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There have been no changes to these policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 that are of significance or potential significance to the Company except for the change in accounting for leases as described below.
Net cash used in operating activities was $6,570 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of cash used of $2,989 from $3,581 of cash used in operating activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing our share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures.
We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs; however, there can be no assurance that, if needed, we will be successful in obtaining the necessary funds through equity or debt financing.
We occupy a 5,000 square-foot facility in Gainesville, Florida under the terms of an operating lease that expires in February 2021 with the possibility of renewing the lease for 10 more years.
The Gainesville facility is used primarily to support our research and development activities.
We currently occupy a 21,443 square-foot facility in Salt Lake City, Utah under the terms of an operating lease expiring in March 2024, with an option to extend for additional five years.
The facility supports our principal administrative, sales, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities.
We occupied a 10,700 square-foot warehouse in Shenzhen, China under the terms of an operating lease, that expired in September 2019, which served as manufacturing support center for Asia.
We occupy a 7,070 square-foot facility in Austin, Texas - under the terms of an operating lease that expired in October 2019.
This facility supports our sales, marketing, customer support, and research and development activities.
We occupy a 3,068 square-foot facility in Zaragoza, Spain under the terms of an operating lease expiring in March 2020.
This office supports our research and development and customer support activities 
We occupy a 6,175 square-foot facility in Chennai, India - under the terms of an operating lease expiring in August 2021.
This facility supports our administrative, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities.
We occupy a 40,000 square-foot warehouse in Salt Lake City, Utah under the terms of an operating lease expiring in April 2025, which serves as our primary inventory fulfillment and repair center.
The Company’s share-based incentive plans offering stock options are offered under the Company’s 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”), which was restated and approved by the shareholders on December 12, 2015.
Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.


item2.txt
ClearOne is a global Company that designs, develops and sells conferencing, collaboration, and AV networking solutions for voice and visual communications.
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
In August 2019, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued patent number 10,397,697 to ClearOne. This patent, entitled “Band-Limited Beamforming Microphone Array,” describes a method, among other things, of making or using a band-limited beamforming microphone array by augmenting beamformed audio signals with additional audio signals that are not included in the beamforming process.
In that litigation, ClearOne asserts that Shure’s MXA910 Ceiling Array Microphone, which competes with ClearOne’s beamforming microphone array products, infringes certain of ClearOne’s patents.
The Court held that ClearOne established that "Shure is likely infringing the ’806 Patent and [that Shure] has not raised a substantial question of the patent’s validity.” The injunction order prohibits Shure from “manufacturing, marketing, and selling the MXA910 to be used in its drop-ceiling mounting configuration, including marketing and selling the MXA910 in a way that encourages or allows integrators to install it in a drop-ceiling mounting configuration." 
We also continued our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path.
Overall revenue declined in the third quarter of 2019 when compared to the third quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except microphones.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
Net loss decreased from $10.1 million in the third quarter of 2018 to $2.0 million in the third quarter of 2019.
The net loss in the third quarter of 2018 included about $7.8 million in tax expenses due to recording of valuation allowance as we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets were not realizable primarily due to the Company's continuing pre-tax losses.
Overall revenue declined in the first nine months of 2019 when compared to same period in 2018, with declines seen in all product categories, except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents — which is improperly forcing the Company to compete against its own patented technology — is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
We believe the revenue decline in video products was caused partially by increased competition in the space as well as due to reduced attention from our partners caused by the alternatives made available through infringement of our patents.
Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to increased material costs and reduction of higher margin professional audio conferencing products in the revenue mix.
Net loss during the first nine months of 2019 decreased to $6.4 million from $14.2 million during the same period in 2018.
The net loss in 2018 included about $7.8 million in tax expenses due to recording of a valuation allowance as we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets were not realizable primarily due to the Company's continuing pre-tax losses.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues.
Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products.
Despite our strong leadership position in the installed professional audio conferencing market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market due to higher margins.
Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future.
We derive a major portion of our revenue (approximately 47% for the year ended December 31, 2018) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future.
Our revenue decreased to $6.0 million in 2019-Q3 compared to $6.7 million in 2018-Q3.
The highest decline was seen in the video category with a 21.5% decline followed by audio conferencing with a 15% decline.
Revenue from microphones grew by 3% due to modest growth in sales of ceiling mics and beamforming microphones.
The decline in the audio conferencing category was due to a decline in the professional installed audio conferencing and personal conferencing.
The decline in the video category was due to a decline in both network media streaming and video conferencing.
We believe that the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and the microphone categories.
The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 51% in 2018-Q3 to 49% in 2019-Q3.
The share of video products in the revenue mix dropped slightly to 15% from 17%.
During 2019-Q3 revenue declined in the USA, Canada, Australia, China, and Northern Europe offset by revenue increases in Japan, South Korea, Middle East, India, and Southern Europe.
Our revenue decreased to $18.7 million in 2019 YTD compared to $20.9 million in 2018 YTD.
The highest decline was seen in the audio conferencing category with a 20% decline followed by microphones with a 2% decline.
Revenue from video products grew by a modest 3% mainly due to growth in revenue from sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras and cloud-based videoconferencing services.
The decline in the audio conferencing category was due to a decline in all subcategories including professional installed audio conferencing, personal conferencing and tabletop conferencing.
The decline in the microphones category was due to a decline in beamforming microphones and ceiling microphones offset by an increase in revenue from wireless mics.
The on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and microphone categories.
The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 51% in 2018 YTD to 46% in 2019 YTD.
The share of video products in the revenue mix increased from 17% to 20%.
During 2019-YTD revenue declined in all regions except the Middle East, India, South Korea, and Southern Europe.
Our gross profit for 2019-Q3 was approximately $2.5 million or 42% compared to approximately $3.0 million, or 45%, for 2018-Q3.
Gross Profit margin decreased mainly due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during 2019 YTD from 49% during 2018 YTD.
The gross profit margin decreased primarily due to increased material costs and the reduction of higher-margin professional audio conferencing products in the revenue mix.
Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional installed audio-conferencing products.
Our long-term inventory includes approximately $1.6 million of wireless microphone-related finished goods and assemblies, $1.8 million of Converge Pro and Beamforming microphone array products, $0.8 million of network media streaming products and about $1.9 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products.
Any business changes that are adverse to these product lines could potentially impact our ability to sell our long-term inventory in addition to our current inventory.
During 2018-Q3 the Company recorded discrete tax expense of $6.5 million, due primarily to the recording of a full valuation allowance on the Company’s net deferred tax assets.
Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $6.6 million in 2019 YTD, an increase of cash used of approximately $3.0 million from $3.6 million of cash used in operating activities in 2018 YTD.
The increase in cash used was primarily due to a decrease in non-cash charges of $3.4 million and increase in cash outflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $7.3 million which includes $4.5 million towards payment of a bond for securing the preliminary injunction in our litigation to stop the infringement of our patents, partially offset by a decrease in net loss by $7.7 million.


item4.txt
Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third-party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.
The remediation plan will include an assessment of personnel levels and responsibilities, additional training of financial reporting personnel and ability to handle new requirements and projects on a timely basis with respect to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and public company reporting requirements and timelines.
The material weakness will be fully remediated when, in the opinion of management, the control processes have been operating for a sufficient period of time to provide reasonable assurance as to their effectiveness.


part2.txt
On February 15, 2019, the Company filed a petition for inter partes review of Shure’s U.S. Patent No. 9,565,493 (“’493 Patent”), arguing that all claims of the ’493 Patent should be cancelled in light of several prior art references, including ClearOne’s U.S. Patent No. 9,813,806 (the “’806 Patent”).
Shure has opposed the petition, and a decision by the Patent Trial and Appeal Board whether to institute inter partes review is expected by August 20, 2019.


