The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2017.
This was the primary reason for a change in AVX's global tax rate estimate for the fiscal year ending  March 2018, resulting in a blended, estimated global tax rate of 27% for fiscal 2018.
This one-time tax is assessed at a 15.5% rate on all such earnings held in cash or liquid asset positions, and at an 8% rate on all other non-liquid asset positions.
In consideration of the Act, the Company has determined that it is no longer necessary to assert that cash and profits generated by our foreign subsidiaries will continue to be reinvested locally indefinitely.
The classification criteria maintains the distinction between finance leases and operating leases.
Regarding operating leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term on a generally straight-line basis, and 3) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
The standard became effective for the interim reporting period ending  June 30, 2017 and has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In  January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other.” This guidance simplifies how an entity is required to test goodwill for impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Step 2 measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of goodwill.
This ASU also removes the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment, and if it fails that qualitative test to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test.
Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.
Therefore, final amounts recorded  may differ from information presented pending further review of the acquired business.
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period.