fls.txt
The forward-looking information may include, among other information, statements concerning our outlook for fiscal year 2019, overall volume and pricing trends, cost reduction and acquisition strategies and their anticipated results, and expectations for research and development and capital expenditures.
Any forward-looking statements by the Company are intended to speak only as of the date thereof.


item1.txt
All intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
We have prepared the accompanying financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
All products are built to specification and tested by AVX or our suppliers for adherence to such specification before shipment to customers.
The Company applies this accounting policy election consistently to its sales.
These warranties cannot be purchased by the customer separately and accordingly these warranties are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
Payment terms for the Company’s sales are generally less than 90 days.
Substantially all of the Company’s receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward.
We evaluate gross versus net presentation on revenues from products purchased and resold in accordance with the revenue recognition criteria outlined in ASC 606.
Accordingly, commissions are expensed as incurred.
Using the “portfolio approach,” we believe we have an adequate basis to assess the reasonableness and reliability of our estimates for each program.
The liability accrued reflects the variable consideration not expected to be received.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns.
When the product is returned and verified, the customer is given credit against their accounts receivable.
Stock rotation is a program whereby distributor customers are allowed to return, for credit, qualified inventory, semi-annually, equal to a certain percentage, primarily limited to 5% of the previous six months net sales.
The pricing adjustment is deemed variable consideration.
Ship and debit authorizations may cover current and future distributor activity for a specific part for sale to their customer.
The Company adopted this guidance effective April 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method, with no material impact on our results of operations.
The classification criteria maintains the distinction between finance leases and operating leases.
Regarding finance leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize interest on the lease liability separate from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income, and 3) classify repayments of the principal portion of the lease liability within financing activities and payments of interest on the lease liability and variable lease payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
In August 2017, FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging.” The standard aims to align the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results for cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with risk management activities.
We used the acquisition method of accounting to record the below transactions in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations.” In accordance with the acquisition method, the purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values with the excess being allocated to goodwill.
The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
We recorded approximately $18,168 of identifiable intangible assets and $27,320 of goodwill pertaining to this acquisition.
The acquired intangible assets relate to the AB Electronics trade name, existing technology and customer relationships which are being amortized over one, eleven, and six years respectively.
The Ethertronics business is now named “AVX Antenna” and is consolidated with our Electronic Components segment.
We recognized revenue of $31,806 and $63,747 from AVX Antenna in the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2018, respectively.


