fls.txt



item1.txt
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with a one year early adoption permitted.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
There are certain practical expedients that can be elected which the company is currently evaluating for application.
A cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements.
Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The guidance also requires specific disclosures relating to revenue recognition.
Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million.
The company expects revenue recognition for its broad portfolio of hardware, software, and services offerings to remain largely unchanged.
Refer to note 3, “Revenue Recognition,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption and changes in accounting policies relating to revenue recognition.
In January 2017, the company had one transaction that generated a $582 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income and a benefit to both basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.62 per share for the year ended December 31, 2017.
These impacts are recorded on a prospective basis.
The company continues to estimate forfeitures in conjunction with measuring stock-based compensation cost.


item2.txt
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company filed a Form 8-K on March 29, 2018 to recast its historical consolidated and segment information to reflect the change.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
In the first quarter of 2018, the company reported $19.1 billion in revenue, $1.7 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.3 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.81 as reported and $2.45 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company also generated $4.6 billion in cash from operations and $1.3 billion in free cash flow in the first quarter of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $2.2 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
Mobile revenue increased 19 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency and Security revenue increased 65 percent (60 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting strong demand for the company’s highly-integrated security software, security managed services and the pervasive encryption capabilities in the z14 mainframe, and growth in security software solutions.
The operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 43.7 percent decreased 0.7 points.
The consolidated gross margin and the operating (non-GAAP) gross margin performance improved sequentially 80 basis points and 70 basis points, respectively, compared to the fourth-quarter 2017 year-to-year performance driven by an improved mix and productivity led by services.
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.1 billion decreased 20.2 percent and the pre-tax margin was 6.0 percent, a decrease of 1.9 points year to year.
The prior year negative tax rate was primarily driven by discrete tax items ($0.5 billion), including the first-quarter 2017 intra-entity transfer of assets ($0.6 billion).
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.7 billion decreased 14.4 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 2.1 points to 9.1 percent.
The company generated $4.6 billion in cash flow provided by operating activities, an increase of $0.6 billion compared to the first quarter of 2017, driven primarily by an increase in cash provided by working capital performance and financing receivables, partially offset by an increase in cash income tax payments.
Refer to page 70 in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on this non-GAAP measure.


item4.txt



part2.txt



