fls.txt



item1.txt
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
Other immaterial reclassifications have been annotated where applicable.
The guidance also changes the requirements for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts and requires additional disclosures for these reporting units.
In June 2016, with amendments in 2018 and 2019, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs (IDCs) and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company made a policy election to not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
Refer to note 5, “Leases,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption.
In August 2018, the FASB issued guidance on a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in cloud-computing arrangements that are hosted by a vendor.
At adoption on January 1, 2018, $2.4 billion was reclassified from AOCI to retained earnings, primarily comprised of amounts relating to retirement-related benefit plans.
The guidance required certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.


item2.txt
Effective with the first quarter of 2019, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system.
As a result of these changes, the company revised its reportable segments.
There was no change to the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations” for additional information.
These divested businesses are included in the company’s Other segment.
The company’s reportable segment financial results reflect pre-tax operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company’s management and measurement system.
Total cloud revenue of $5.0 billion in the third quarter of 2019 grew 11 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency.
Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) increased 15.9 percent year to year, driven primarily by the higher spending described above.
The year-to-year decrease was primarily driven by a benefit from the realization of a tax only capital loss in a subsidiary (10.7 points), an increase in tax benefits attributable to audit activity (4.3 points), as well as a benefit due to the mix of geographic income year to year (5.0 points), primarily driven by Red Hat.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.4 billion decreased 33.4 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 5.9 points to 13.3 percent.
Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $2.4 billion decreased 23.6 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 13.3 percent, down 3.4 points year to year.


item4.txt



part2.txt



