fls.txt



item1.txt
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with a one year early adoption permitted.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
There are certain practical expedients that can be elected which the company is currently evaluating for application.
A cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements.
The amount that would have been reclassified from lease receivables to loan receivables in 2017, under the application of this new guidance, would have been approximately $450 million.
Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The guidance also requires specific disclosures relating to revenue recognition.
Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced by $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million.
The company expects revenue recognition for its broad portfolio of hardware, software, and services offerings to remain largely unchanged.
Refer to note 3, “Revenue Recognition,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption and changes in accounting policies relating to revenue recognition.
In January 2017, the company had one transaction that generated a $582 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income and a benefit to both basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.62 per share for the six months ended June 30, 2017.


item2.txt
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company filed a Form 8-K on March 29, 2018 to recast its historical consolidated and segment information to reflect the change.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
In the second quarter of 2018, the company reported $20.0 billion in revenue, $2.4 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.8 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.61 as reported and $3.08 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company also generated $2.3 billion in cash from operations and $1.9 billion in free cash flow in the second quarter of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $2.4 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
technology combined with deep industry expertise underpinned by trust and security – all delivered through its integrated business model.
Total consolidated revenue increased 3.7 percent as reported and 1.6 percent adjusted for currency, reflecting the company’s highest constant currency growth in seven years.
There was continued momentum in revenue across the strategic imperatives in the second quarter, led by cloud and security.
Strategic imperatives revenue of $10.1 billion increased 15 percent as reported and 13 percent adjusted for currency in the second quarter, led by cloud and security.
Security grew 81 percent as reported (79 percent adjusted for currency) driven by strong demand for the pervasive encryption of IBM Z and growth in integrated software and services.
Total expense and other (income) decreased 1.6 percent in the second quarter of 2018.
The year-to-year decrease was due to lower spending (5 points) as the company continues to realize acquisition synergies and drives operational efficiencies by streamlining its management system, scaling agile and implementing new ways of working.
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.8 billion increased 13.6 percent and the pre-tax margin was 13.9 percent, an increase of 1.2 points year to year.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $3.4 billion increased 10.9 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 1.1 points to 16.9 percent.


item4.txt



part2.txt



