fls.txt



item1.txt
Refer to note 8, “Segments,” for additional information on the changes in reportable segments.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
The guidance also changes the requirements for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts and requires additional disclosures for these reporting units.
In June 2016, with amendments in 2018, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company made a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
Refer to note 5, “Leases,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption.
The guidance required certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The guidance also requires specific disclosures relating to revenue recognition.
In the fourth quarter of 2018, the company recognized an additional impact to net deferred taxes and retained earnings of $56 million, resulting in a total net increase to retained earnings of $580 million.


item2.txt
Effective with the first quarter of 2019, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system.
As a result of these changes, the company revised its reportable segments.
There is no change to the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
In the first quarter of 2019, the company reported $18.2 billion in revenue, $1.6 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.0 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.78 as reported and $2.25 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
As the company continued to optimize its portfolio and invest in emerging, high-value areas of the IT industry, there was strong performance in offerings that help clients with their digital transformation and shift of mission-critical work to the cloud.
Total cloud revenue of $4.5 billion in the first quarter of 2019 grew 7 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency.
The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue was $11.7 billion, an increase of 10 percent as reported and 15 percent adjusted for currency.
Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.9 billion increased 65.8 percent and the pre-tax margin was 10.4 percent, an increase of 4.4 points versus 2018.
Net income of $1.6 billion decreased 5.2 percent and the net income margin was 8.8 percent, flat year to year.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $2.2 billion grew 28.3 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 3.2 points to 12.3 percent.
Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $2.0 billion decreased 11.6 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 11.0 percent, down 0.9 points year to year.


item4.txt



part2.txt



