The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
The guidance also changes the requirements for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts and requires additional disclosures for these reporting units.
In June 2016, with amendments in 2018 and 2019, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The company elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company made a policy election to not recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
Refer to note 5, “Leases,” for additional information, including further discussion on the impact of adoption.
In August 2018, the FASB issued guidance on a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in cloud-computing arrangements that are hosted by a vendor.Effective with the first quarter of 2019, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system.
As a result of these changes, the company revised its reportable segments.
There is no change to the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company provided recast historical segment information reflecting these changes in a Form 8-K dated April 4, 2019.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations” for additional information.
The company’s reportable segment financial results reflect pre-tax operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company’s management and measurement system.
In the second quarter of 2019, the company reported $19.2 billion in revenue, $2.5 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.8 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.81 as reported and $3.17 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.