fls.txt



item1.txt
Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts.
In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance on a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in cloud-computing arrangements that are hosted by a vendor.
In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model.
A cross-functional team has been established that is evaluating the financial instruments portfolio and system, process and policy change requirements.
The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The company expects to elect the package of practical expedients not to reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification and initial direct costs and the lessee practical expedient to combine lease and nonlease components for all asset classes.
The company will make a policy election to not recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases for all asset classes.
A cross-functional implementation team is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process, control and policy change requirements.
As a lessee, the company’s operating lease commitments were $6.6 billion at December 31, 2017.
The amount that would have been reclassified from lease receivables to loan receivables in 2017, under the application of this new guidance, would have been approximately $450 million.
Certain equity investments are now measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income.
The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016.
Revenue recognition depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The guidance also requires specific disclosures relating to revenue recognition.
Additionally, net deferred taxes were reduced by $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million.
The company expects revenue recognition for its broad portfolio of hardware, software, and services offerings to remain largely unchanged.


item2.txt
The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis.
The company filed a Form 8-K on March 29, 2018 to recast its historical consolidated and segment information to reflect the change.
Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
In the third quarter of 2018, the company reported $18.8 billion in revenue, $2.7 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $3.1 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.94 as reported and $3.42 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis.
The company generated $4.2 billion in cash from operations and $2.2 billion in free cash flow in the third quarter of 2018, and delivered shareholder returns of $2.1 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends.
Total consolidated revenue decreased 2.1 percent as reported but was flat adjusted for currency in the third quarter, with continued growth in offerings in hybrid cloud, security, digital, analytics and AI.
Strategic imperatives revenue over the last 12 months was $39.5 billion, an increase of 13 percent as reported and 11 percent adjusted for currency.
Total expense and other (income) decreased 1.9 percent in the third quarter of 2018.
This benefit was partially offset by a lower level of intellectual property (IP) income (1 point) compared to the prior year.
Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $3.6 billion increased 0.5 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations increased 0.5 points to 19.2 percent.
The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2018 was 12.8 percent, a decline of 2.0 points.
Net cash used in investing activities of $3.0 billion in the third quarter of 2018 was $1.1 billion higher than the prior year, primarily driven by an increase from net purchases of marketable securities and other investments ($1.5 billion).
Net cash used in financing activities of $0.4 billion decreased $2.3 billion compared to the third quarter of 2017, driven primarily by a decrease in net cash used for debt transactions ($2.0 billion) and a decrease in cash used for gross common share repurchases ($0.3 billion).
The company continues to expect GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations of at least $11.60 and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of at least $13.80 per diluted share for 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt



