fls.txt
The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.


item1.txt
For additional information, see Note 6 – Commitments and Contingencies in the above Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, “Item 3.


item2.txt
This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The amounts presented below for the 13-weeks ended March 31, 2018 are presented here as they were originally reported.
Net sales increased 8% for the 13-week period ended March 30, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 24% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 23% in the first quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the first quarter of 2019 increased to 3,182 when compared to total unit sales of 2,956 in the first quarter of 2018.
The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables.
The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
Auto segment revenue decreased 10% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
Gross margin increased in the auto segment and was relatively flat in the aviation and marine segments when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment gross margin increase was primarily attributable to product mix.
The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased media advertising in the outdoor segment and increased cooperative advertising in the fitness and marine segments.
The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
This increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
In the current quarter, the growth in operating income in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue and gross profit dollar growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses, as discussed above.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, and fund strategic acquisitions.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.


item4.txt
Item 4.
Item 5.Other Information Item 6.Exhibits Exhibit 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).


part2.txt
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018.
Exhibit 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Exhibit 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.


