The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events.Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
Net sales increased 15% for the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 24%, contributing 85% of total revenue.
Outdoor was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 28% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to 26% in the third quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2019 increased to 3,659 when compared to total unit sales of 3,527 in the third quarter of 2018.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 23%, 28%, 9%, and 28%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by adventure watches.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
Gross profit dollars in the third quarter of 2019 increased 18%, primarily due to growth in net sales along with a gross margin increase of 140 basis points compared to the year-ago quarter.
The auto segment gross margin increase of 490 basis points was primarily attributable to lower license expense.
A portion of license expense favorability in the auto segment is expected to continue for the remainder of the year.
Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor and marine segments.
Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars.
The fitness segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to greater leverage of operating costs.
The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported.
Operating income increased 33% in absolute dollars and 380 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.Item 1.