fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
These estimates and assumptions have been applied using methodologies that are consistent throughout the periods presented.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”), to reduce diversity in practice in accounting for the costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
See Note 3, Revenues, for additional disclosures related to this standard.
Client Devices consist of hard disk drives (“HDDs”) and solid state drives (“SSDs”) for computing devices; flash-based embedded storage products; and flash-based memory wafers.
Data Center Devices and Solutions consist of high-capacity enterprise HDDs and high-performance enterprise SSDs, data center software and system solutions.
Client Solutions consist of HDDs and SSDs embedded into external storage products and removable flash-based products.
The transaction price to be recognized as revenue is adjusted for variable consideration, such as sales incentives, and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, including taxes imposed by governmental authorities.
Revenue for a right to use arrangement is recognized at the time the control of the license is transferred to the customer.
Contract liabilities relate to customers’ payments in advance of performance under the contract and primarily relate to remaining performance obligations under support and maintenance contracts.
Note 5.Fair Value Measurements and Investments Level 1.Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The equity securities of these privately-held companies do not have a RDFV.
In addition, the existing impairment model has been replaced with a new one-step qualitative impairment model.


item2.txt
See also “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately prior to Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” refer to Western Digital Corporation and its subsidiaries.
As a result, average selling price per gigabyte of flash-based products has declined.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Although we intend to enter into agreements with TMC in due course to participate in the new Kitakami facility, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so.
Demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this Item 1A as our “products”, depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers (“PCs”) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems.
The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period.
In addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features.
Further, some of our competitors may utilize certain pricing strategies, including offering products at prices at or below cost, that we may be unable to competitively match.
If we are unable to effectively compete with any manufacturers located in China or non-Chinese competitors benefitting from alliances with Chinese companies in the markets where we compete, our operating results and financial condition will suffer.
Finally, the data storage industry as a whole has experienced consolidation over the past several years through acquisitions, mergers and decisions by industry players to exit the industry.
If we do not properly manage technology transitions, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected.
The storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions that we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner.
3D NAND and any new manufacturing node may be more susceptible to manufacturing yield issues.


