fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
Fiscal year 2019, which ended on June 28, 2019, was comprised of 52 weeks, with all quarters presented consisting of 13 weeks.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
Direct incremental costs to obtain contracts that have an expected benefit of greater than one year are amortized over the period of expected cash flows from the related contracts, and the amortization expense is recorded as a reduction to revenue.
Contract liabilities relate to customers’ payments in advance of performance under the contract and primarily relate to remaining performance obligations under support and maintenance contracts.
As of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019, contract liabilities were not material.
Level 1.Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Investments in Flash Ventures are denominated in Japanese yen, and the maximum estimable loss exposure excludes any cumulative translation adjustment due to revaluation from the Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar.
In June 2019, an unexpected power outage incident occurred at the flash-based memory manufacturing facilities operated by Flash Ventures in Yokkaichi, Japan.
The primary purpose of K1 is to provide clean room space to continue the transition of existing flash-based wafer capacity to newer technology nodes.
Inventory Purchase Commitments with Flash Ventures.
Purchase orders placed under Flash Ventures for up to three months are binding and cannot be canceled.
Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as of October 4, 2019 was approximately $126 million.


item2.txt
Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters.
We are a leading developer, manufacturer and provider of data storage devices and solutions that address the evolving needs of the information technology (“IT”) industry and the infrastructure that enables the proliferation of data in virtually every other industry.
We create environments for data to thrive.
Fiscal year 2020, which ends on July 3, 2020, will be comprised of 53 weeks, with the first quarter consisting of 14 weeks and the remaining quarters consisting of 13 weeks each.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Kioxia Corporation (“Kioxia”) for the development and supply of flash-based memory, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We depend on our ventures with Kioxia to develop and manufacture our flash-based memory.
If our supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin or damage certain customer relationships.
Further, although we intend to continue to jointly invest with Kioxia to ramp up manufacturing capacity at K1, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so.
If and for so long as our share of the K1 capacity falls below a specified threshold, we will be responsible for bearing fixed costs associated with K1’s operations at that threshold, which could adversely affect our financial results.
Demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this Item 1A as our “products”, depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers (“PCs”) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems.
The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period.
If we do not properly manage technology transitions and product development and introduction, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected.
The storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions that we must anticipate and adapt our existing products or develop new products to address in a timely manner.
•the effectiveness of our go-to-market capability in selling new products.


