fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”), to reduce diversity in practice in accounting for the costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts.
The Company adopted this standard on a prospective basis effective June 30, 2018, the beginning of fiscal year 2019, as allowed by the standard.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
Topic 606 outlines a comprehensive five-step revenue recognition model based on the principle that an entity should recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
These arrangements had no remaining performance obligations but were previously recognized under Topic 605 when they were reported to the Company by its licensees, which was generally one quarter in arrears from the licensees’ sales of the licensed products.
See Note 3, Revenues, for additional disclosures related to this standard.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to the customer.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenue is from the sale of tangible products for which the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time, generally upon delivery.
Similarly, revenue from patent licensing arrangements is recognized based on whether the arrangement provides the customer a right to use or right to access the IP.
Revenue for a right to use arrangement is recognized at the time the control of the license is transferred to the customer.
The Company’s customer payment terms are typically less than three months from the date control over the product or service is transferred to the customer.
Contract assets represent the Company’s rights to consideration where performance obligations are completed but the customer payments are not due until another performance obligation is satisfied.
The Company did not have any contract assets as of either December 28, 2018 or the date of adoption of Topic 606.


item2.txt
As a result, average selling price per gigabyte of flash-based products has declined.
We are also obligated to fund 49.9% to 50% of Flash Ventures’ capital investments to the extent that Flash Ventures’ operating cash flow is insufficient to fund these investments.
Flash Ventures has historically operated near 100% of its manufacturing capacity.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Although we intend to enter into agreements with TMC in due course to participate in the new Kitakami facility, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so.
Demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this Item 1A as our “products”, depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers (“PCs”) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems.
The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period.
In addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features.
Further, some of our competitors may utilize certain pricing strategies, including offering products at prices at or below cost, that we may be unable to competitively match.
If we are unable to effectively compete with any manufacturers located in China or non-Chinese competitors benefitting from alliances with Chinese companies in the markets where we compete, our operating results and financial condition will suffer.
Rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence.
Finally, the data storage industry as a whole has experienced consolidation over the past several years through acquisitions, mergers and decisions by industry players to exit the industry.
If we do not properly manage technology transitions, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected.
The storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions that we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner.


