fls.txt



item1.txt
The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
Company management has made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of certain assets and liabilities in conformity with U.S. GAAP.
These estimates and assumptions have been applied using methodologies that are consistent throughout the periods presented.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
2015‑11, “Inventory (Topic 330) - Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory” (“ASU 2015‑11”), which dictates that an entity should measure inventory within the scope of this update at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation.
The Company’s adoption of ASU 2015‑11 did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
On September 15, 2017, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of Tegile Systems, Inc., a provider of flash and persistent-memory storage solutions for enterprise data center applications.
These acquisitions are primarily intended to help meet the evolving needs of customers, while driving long-term growth for the Company's existing data center and client solution products over the long term.
The aggregate purchase price of acquisitions during the six months ended December 29, 2017 was $99 million in cash, with net assets acquired primarily consisting of developed technology and other intangibles assets, of which $61 million was allocated to goodwill.


item2.txt
Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters.
Our fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest to June 30 and typically consists of 52 weeks.
The Refinancing Transactions are expected to be completed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018, subject to customary closing conditions.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
•Volatile Demand and Supplier Risk.
If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”), or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
If demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand.
We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances.
A significant loss of accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial condition.
Flash Ventures requires significant investments by both TMC and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3D NAND, and capacity expansions.
To the extent that lease financings for Flash Ventures are not available on favorable terms or at all, more cash would be required to fund investments.
If TMC does not or we do not provide sufficient resources, or have adequate access to credit, to timely fund investments in Flash Ventures, our investments could be delayed or reduced.
Although we intend to enter into agreements with TMC in due course to participate in the new Iwate facility, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so.
On January 29, 2018, we announced the Refinancing Transactions, which remain subject to market and other conditions.


