fls.txt



item1.txt
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
These estimates and assumptions have been applied using methodologies that are consistent throughout the periods presented.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
Revenues and earnings related to these acquisitions was not material.
Note 4.Fair Value Measurements and Investments Level 1.Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3.Inputs that are unobservable for the asset or liability and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Each of the financial instruments presented below was categorized as Level 2 for all periods presented, based on the frequency of trading immediately prior to the end of the third quarter of 2018 and the fourth quarter of 2017, respectively.
These investments consist of debt and equity securities of privately-held companies that do not have a readily determinable fair value and are carried at historical cost.
As of March 30, 2018, debt discount and issuance cost of $176 million remained unamortized.
In February 2018, the Company entered into an amendment to the credit agreement entered into on April 29, 2016 (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”), to provide for, among other things, (i) the issuance of a new $5.02 billion of term loan A-1 due 2023 (the “Term Loan A-1”), (ii) a new $2.25 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2023 (the “Revolving Facility”), which replaced the Company’s prior $1.50 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2021, (iii) modifications to the restrictive and financial maintenance covenants, to provide more flexibility and increased incremental debt capacity, (iv) amendments of the applicable varying interest rate margins to be based on the Company’s corporate credit ratings as described in the indenture, and (v) upon the occurrence of certain circumstances, a release of the security and guarantees as well as further covenant flexibility and increased incremental debt capacity.
The Term Loan A-1 and the Revolving Facility are unconditionally guaranteed by each of the guarantors under the Credit Agreement and are secured on a first-priority basis (subject to permitted liens) by a lien on the same collateral that secure the other loans under the Credit Agreement; provided that the security and guarantees will be automatically suspended upon certain conditions.
Principal payments on U.S.
For all reporting periods presented, no loans were past due and no loan impairments were recorded.
Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as of March 30, 2018 was approximately $105 million.


item2.txt
See also “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately prior to Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters.
Our fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest to June 30 and typically consists of 52 weeks.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
•Volatile Demand and Supplier Risk.
If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”) or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
If demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand.
We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances.
A significant loss of accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial condition.
Flash Ventures requires significant investments by both TMC and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3D NAND, and capacity expansions.
To the extent that lease financings for Flash Ventures are not available on favorable terms or at all, more cash would be required to fund investments.
If TMC does not or we do not provide sufficient resources, or have adequate access to credit, to timely fund investments in Flash Ventures, our investments could be delayed or reduced.
Although we intend to enter into agreements with TMC in due course to participate in the new Iwate facility, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so.
Our ability to meet the debt service obligations contained in our debt agreements will depend on our available cash and our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in laws or regulations, industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of our products and pressure from competitors.


