We acquired TSheets.com LLC, Exactor, Inc., and Applatix, Inc. in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Total costs and expenses in these categories were $21 million in fiscal 2018; $14 million in fiscal 2017; and $34 million in fiscal 2016.
As we continue to grow our online services, we become more dependent on the continuing operation and availability of our information technology and communications systems and those of our external service providers, including, for example, third-party Internet-based or cloud computing services.
In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
We increasingly utilize the distribution platforms of third parties like Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play Store for the distribution of certain of our product offerings.
We are continually investing resources to update and improve these systems and environments in order to meet existing needs, as well as the growing and changing requirements of our business and customers.
Many of the risks associated with usage of open source may not be eliminated, and may, if not properly addressed, harm our business.
Our tax offerings have significant seasonal patterns.
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models and monetization strategies, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses.
We need to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies, which require us to devote significant resources.Total net revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $163 million or 12% while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $85 million or 9%.
Total net revenue for the first six months of fiscal 2019 increased $269 million or 12% while total operating expenses for the period increased $117 million or 7%.
Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period of fiscal 2018.Total costs and expenses in these categories were $21 million in fiscal 2018; $14 million in fiscal 2017; and $34 million in fiscal 2016.
As we continue to grow our online services, we become more dependent on the continuing operation and availability of our information technology and communications systems and those of our external service providers, including, for example, third-party Internet-based or cloud computing services.
In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, expenses associated with the initiatives and inadequate return on investments.
We are continually investing resources to update and improve these systems and environments in order to meet existing needs, as well as the growing and changing requirements of our business and customers.