item1.txt
Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Cypress" or the "Company") reports on a fiscal-year basis.
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
("AgigA") for total cash consideration of $3.9 million, making AgigA a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Company will, consistent with the presentation in prior periods, continue to report AgigA's financial results under its Memory Products Division.
On June 3, 2019, the Company entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Infineon Technologies AG, a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft) organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany ("Infineon") and IFX Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon ("Merger Sub").
Subject to approval by Cypress's stockholders and the relevant regulatory bodies as well as other customary closing conditions, the Merger Agreement provides for Merger Sub to merge with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets.
Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of assets, does not apply the recognition requirements for leases of 12 months or less, and recognizes lease payments for short-term leases as expense either straight-line over the lease term or as incurred depending on whether the lease payments are fixed or variable.
The Company subleases certain portions of buildings and land subject to operating leases.
When discount rates implicit in leases cannot be readily determined, the Company uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to perform lease classification tests on lease components and to measure lease liabilities and ROU assets.
The incremental borrowing rate used by the Company was based on baseline rates and adjusted by the credit spreads commensurate with the Company’s secured borrowing rate, over a similar term.
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, as of December 31, 2018 and applied the alternative modified retrospective transition method requiring application of the new guidance to all leases existing at, or entered into on or after, the date of adoption, i.e. December 31, 2018.
On June 3, 2019, Infineon, Merger Sub and the Company entered into the Merger Agreement, which provides for Merger Sub, upon the closing of the transaction, to merge with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
As of September 29, 2019, the Company has not accrued for certain bankers fees, employee retention cash bonuses and expense relating to the acceleration of stock-based compensation awards as these expenditures are contingent on the completion of the Merger.
If the proposed Merger does not close, under circumstances in which the Company receives a reverse break-up fee, bankers fees of approximately $22.2 million are contingently payable by Cypress.
Additionally, employee retention cash bonus commitments in the aggregate amount of $9.7 million were made to certain employees during the third quarter of fiscal 2019, 50% of which will be payable upon the closing of the Merger, and the remaining 50% of which will potentially be payable six months after the closing of the Merger.
Revenue for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2019 reflects divestment of the Company's NAND business to SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh"), a newly formed joint venture, which was completed on April 1, 2019.


item2.txt
Our total revenue decreased by $98.5 million, or 14.6%, to $574.5 million in the three months ended September 29, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Revenue from the NAND flash business which was divested on April 1, 2019 was $43.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Excluding the impact of the NAND flash business divestiture, our total revenues decreased by $55.2 million, or 8.8%, for the three months ended September 29, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Our total revenues decreased by $233.6 million, or 12.4%, to $1,645.7 million in the nine months ended September 29, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Revenue from the NAND flash business decreased by $106.8 million to $31.1 million in the nine months ended September 29, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Revenues recorded by MCD decreased by $2.7 million, or 0.6%, in the three months ended September 29, 2019 compared to the same prior year period.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.


item4.txt
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


part2.txt
The information required by this item is included in Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful.
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.


