item1.txt
Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Cypress" or the "Company") reports on a fiscal-year basis.
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
On June 3, 2019, the Company entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Infineon Technologies AG, a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft) organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany ("Infineon") and IFX Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon ("Merger Sub").
Subject to approval by Cypress's stockholders and the relevant regulatory bodies as well as other customary closing conditions, the Merger Agreement provides for Merger Sub to merge with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
The Company has elected the practical expedient within ASC Topic 842 to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions for all classes of assets.
Additionally, the Company has elected the short-term lease exception for all classes of 
The Company subleases certain portions of buildings and land subject to operating leases.
When discount rates implicit in leases cannot be readily determined, the Company uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to perform lease classification tests on lease components and to measure lease liabilities and ROU assets.
The incremental borrowing rate used by the Company was based on baseline rates and adjusted by the credit spreads commensurate with the Company’s secured borrowing rate, over a similar term.
Other significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2018.
The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, as of December 31, 2018 and applied the alternative modified retrospective transition method requiring application of the new guidance to all leases existing at, or entered into on or after, the date of adoption, i.e. December 31, 2018.
On June 3, 2019, Infineon, Merger Sub and the Company entered into the Merger Agreement, which provides for Merger Sub, upon the closing of the transaction, to merge with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger and as a wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon.
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger (the "Effective Time"), each share of common stock of Cypress ("Cypress Common Stock") that is issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than shares of Cypress Common Stock (a) owned by Infineon, Merger Sub or any other direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Infineon, (b) owned by Cypress, including any shares held in treasury by Cypress, (c) owned by any direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Cypress and (d) owned by stockholders who have perfected and not withdrawn a demand for appraisal rights pursuant to Section 262 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) will be converted into the right to receive $23.85 in cash, without interest.
law prohibiting or order preventing the consummation of the Merger, (iii) the receipt of clearance from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, the receipt of any applicable clearance or affirmative approval by the Anti-Monopoly Bureau of the State Administration for Market Regulation in the People’s Republic of China, approval from the European Commission under the European Merger Regulation, and the expiration of any applicable waiting periods or any applicable authorizations or affirmative approvals of certain other non-U.S. governmental authorities under antitrust laws; (iv) the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to Cypress; and (v) compliance in all material respects on the part of each of Cypress and Infineon with such party’s covenants under the Merger Agreement.
The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for each of Infineon and the Company.
The Company will be required to pay Infineon a termination fee of $330 million in order to accept a superior proposal or if the Company’s Board of Directors makes a change of its recommendation that stockholders vote in favor of the Merger.
Infineon will be required to pay to the Company a termination fee equal to $425 million under certain specified circumstances upon termination of the Merger Agreement.
Revenue for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2019 reflects divestment of the Company's NAND business to SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh"), a newly formed joint venture, which was completed on April 1, 2019.


item2.txt
Our total revenue decreased by $91.9 million, or 14.7%, to $532.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Revenue from the NAND flash business which was divested on April 1, 2019 was $49.5 million in the three months ended July 1, 2018.
Excluding the impact of the NAND flash business divestiture, our total revenues decreased by $42.4 million, or 7.4%, to $532.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
The decrease was primarily due to demand softening across our NOR flash, microcontroller and wireless connectivity businesses.
Our total revenues decreased by $135.1 million, or 11.2%, to $1,071.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year.
The decrease was attributable in part to the divestiture of our NAND flash business, which was completed on April 1, 2019.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, and certificates of deposit.


item4.txt
Based on their evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and subject to the foregoing, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level.


part2.txt
•restrictions in the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated June 3, 2019, by and among Infineon, its subsidiary IFX Merger Sub, Inc., and the Company (the "Merger Agreement") may prevent us from pursuing opportunities without Infineon’s approval or taking other actions that we might have undertaken in the absence of the Merger, and may affect our ability to execute our business strategies, respond effectively to competitive pressures and industry developments, and attain our financial and other goals (including with respect to our current and prospective employees and parties with whom we have or seek to establish business relationships);
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.
Consequently, we recognized an impairment charge of $51.2 million related to our investment in Enovix, reducing its carrying value on our books to zero.
•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in Deca Technologies Inc.


