item1.txt
Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Cypress" or the "Company") reports on a fiscal-year basis.
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
The Company's significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company continues to make progress on this plan which includes reaching out to the Company’s businesses, as well as assessing the Company’s portfolio of active leases.
The Company has also selected a lease accounting software solution to support the new reporting requirements and continues to make progress on its configuration and assessing the design of the future lease process.
While the Company has not yet completed its evaluation of the impact the new lease accounting guidance will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company expects to recognize right of use assets and lease liabilities for its operating leases, which will have a material impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheet upon adoption.
The Company does not expect the changes to have a material impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Upon adoption, the Company expects that its financial statement disclosures will be expanded to present additional details of its leasing arrangements.
The Company is currently evaluating internal controls that would be impacted by the new guidance, to ensure readiness for adoption in the first fiscal quarter of 2019.
The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, the Company identified and recorded certain immaterial errors that originated in fiscal years ended January 1, 2017 and January 3, 2016.
The Company determined that the errors were not material to the previously issued financial statements and disclosures included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 or for any quarterly periods included therein.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company is presenting comparative fiscal 2017 quarterly information.
On August 14, 2018, the Company acquired an embedded software company focused on the internet of things (or "IoT") market for cash consideration of $3 million.
Pro forma results of operations of the acquired company have not been presented because the effect of the acquisition was not material.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company determined that its investment in Enovix, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, had suffered an other-than temporary impairment primarily because Enovix had not achieved certain key planned product development milestones.
Consequently, the Company recognized a charge of $51.2 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, reducing its carrying value to zero as of December 31, 2017.


item2.txt
Our total revenues increased by $68.5 million, or 11.3%, to $673.0 million for the three-month period ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Our total revenues increased by $149.1 million, or 8.6%, to $1,879.4 million for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year.
Revenues recorded by MCD increased by $66.6 million, or 6.3%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same prior year period.
MCD revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 benefited from increase in volume of product sales as a result of new program ramps at certain customers.
Revenues recorded by MPD increased by $28.6 million, or 12.4%, in the three months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same prior year period.


item3.txt
Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of financial instruments that expose us to interest rate risk, including, but not limited to, money market funds, certificates of deposit, and corporate securities.


item4.txt
Management is committed to a strong internal control environment and believes that, when fully implemented and tested, the measures described above will remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.


part2.txt
•inadequate levels of compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. For example, our sales were impacted in the second quarter of 2018 when the U.S. Department of Commerce banned U.S. companies from providing exports to ZTE, a Chinese telecoms equipment manufacturer (which ban was subsequently lifted in the third quarter of 2018) in an export controls case.
Similarly, general trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating in 2018, with rounds of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July, August, and September 2018 (some of which prompted retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods) and with an additional U.S. tariff rate increase scheduled to take effect in January 2019.
•The August and September 2018 rounds of U.S. tariffs apply to some of our products that are assembled in China and imported to the U.S. Specifically, the August round imposed a 25% tariff on integrated circuits and the September round imposed a 10% tariff on modules, which will rise to 25% in January 2019.
For the third quarter of 2018 (when the tariffs were imposed late in the quarter) an immaterial amount of our revenue arose from products subject to such tariffs.


