Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results to differ materially from those implied by the forward-looking statements. Words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “may,” “can,” “will,” “would” and similar expressions identify such forward-looking statements. 



Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted, include, but are not limited to: 



•our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses with our business;



•our ability to realize anticipated synergies in connection with acquired businesses;



•our dependence on a small number of customers;



•severe financial hardship or bankruptcy of one or more of our major customers;



•the effects of any potential future acquisitions, strategic investments, divestitures, mergers or joint ventures; 



•risks associated with acquisition and consolidation activity in the semiconductor industry;



our ability and the ability of our customers to successfully compete in the markets in which we serve;



•our dependence upon the storage market, which is highly cyclical and intensely competitive;



•our ability and our customers’ ability to develop new and enhanced products and the adoption of those products in the market;



•our ability to define, design and develop products for the infrastructure and 5G market and market and sell those products to infrastructure customers;



•decreases in our gross margin and results of operations in the future due to a number of factors;



•our reliance on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products;



•the risks associated with manufacturing and selling a majority of our products and our customers’ products outside of the United States;



•the effects of transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies;



•our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for existing or new products and services;



•our ability to limit costs related to defective products;



•our ability to recruit and retain experienced executive management as well as highly skilled engineering and sales and marketing personnel; 



•our ability to mitigate risks related to our information technology systems;



•our ability to protect our intellectual property;



•our ability to estimate customer demand and future sales accurately;



•our reliance on third-party distributors and manufacturers' representatives to sell our products;



•the impact of international conflict and continued economic volatility in either domestic or foreign markets;



•the impact and costs associated with changes in international financial and regulatory conditions; 



•the impact of any changes in our application of the United Stated federal income tax laws and the loss of any beneficial treatment that we currently enjoy; 



•our maintenance of an effective system of internal controls; and 



•the outcome of pending or future litigation and legal and regulatory proceedings.



Additional factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth in the following discussion, as well as the risks discussed in Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.



Overview



We are a leading supplier of infrastructure semiconductor solutions, spanning the data center core to network edge. We are a fabless semiconductor supplier of high-performance standard and semi-custom products with core strengths in developing and scaling complex System-on-a-Chip architectures integrating analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing functionality. Leveraging leading intellectual property and deep system-level expertise as well as highly innovative security firmware, our solutions are empowering the data economy and enabling virtually instantaneous communications across 5G, cloud, automotive, industrial and artificial intelligence applications. 



In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, our net revenue increased year over year by 9.6% from $604.6 million net revenue in the first quarter fiscal 2019 compared with $662.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The increase was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products by 40% with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in our storage product sales and other product sales, which decreased by 12% and 2%, respectively, in relation to the three months ended May 5, 2018. 



As we enter the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, we are monitoring the near term geopolitical uncertainty and the recent ban on shipments to Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. (“Huawei”). The following discussion reflects our current assessment of the near term impact of this uncertainty. 



Subsequent to quarter end, on May 6, 2019, we announced our intent to acquire Aquantia, Corp. (“Aquantia”), a publicly traded company. It is a manufacturer of high speed transceivers which includes copper and optical physical layer products. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, we will pay Aquantia's stockholders $13.25 per share in cash. This represents approximately $452 million in transaction value after adjusting for net cash on Aquantia's balance sheet. We intend to finance the transaction with cash on hand and borrowings from our revolving credit facility. The transaction is expected to close by the end of December 2019, subject to regulatory approval as well as other customary closing conditions, including the adoption by Aquantia's stockholders of the merger agreement. 





Subsequent to quarter end, on May 20, 2019, we announced our intent to acquire Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the application specific integrated circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries Inc. (“GlobalFoundries”). This acquisition brings together Avera's leading custom design capabilities with our advanced technology platform and scale, creating a leading ASIC supplier for wired and wireless infrastructure. The agreements include transfer of Avera's revenue base, strategic design wins with leading infrastructure original equipment manufacturers, and a new long-term wafer supply agreement between GlobalFoundries and us. We will pay GlobalFoundries $650 million in cash at closing plus an additional $90 million in cash if certain business conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months. The transaction is expected to close by January 2020 pending receipt of regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.



Subsequent to the quarter end, on May 29, 2019, we announced our intent to sell our wi-fi connectivity business to NXP for $1.76 billion in cash. The divestiture encompasses our wi-fi and bluetooth technology portfolios and related assets. The business employs approximately 550 people worldwide and generated approximately $300 million in revenue in our fiscal 2019. This transaction has been approved by the board of directors of NXP and our board of directors and is expected to close by March 2020, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals.



Capital Return Program. We remain committed to delivering shareholder value through our share repurchase and dividend programs. On October 16, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a $700 million addition to the balance of our existing share repurchase plan. Under the program authorized by our Board of Directors, we may repurchase shares in the open-market or through privately negotiated transactions. The extent to which we repurchase our shares and the timing of such repurchases will depend upon market conditions and other corporate considerations, as determined by our management team. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of May 4, 2019, there was $904 million remaining available for future share repurchases.



For the three months ended May 4, 2019, we repurchased 2.4 million shares of our common stock for $50.0 million. As of May 4, 2019, a total of 294.8 million shares have been repurchased to date under the Company’s share repurchase programs for a total $3.9 billion in cash. We returned $89.5 million to stockholders in the three months ended May 4, 2019, including our repurchases of common stock and $39.5 million of cash dividends. 



Cash and Short Term Investments. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $571.9 million at May 4, 2019, which was slightly lower than our balance at our fiscal year ended February 2, 2019 of $582.4 million. 









We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of our major customers and distributors and believe the distributors’ sales to diverse end customers and geographies further serve to mitigate our exposure to credit risk.



Most of our sales are made to customers located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, and all of our products are manufactured outside the United States. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 80% of our net revenue in the three months ended May 4, 2019, and approximately 94% of net revenue in the three months ended May 5, 2018, respectively. Because many manufacturers and manufacturing subcontractors of our customers are located in Asia, we expect that most of our net revenue will continue to be represented by sales to our customers in that region. For risks related to our global operations, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption “We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. The occurrence of any or a combination of the additional risks described below would significantly and negatively impact our business and results of operations.”



Historically, a relatively large portion of our sales have been made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term agreements. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. In addition, the development process for our products is long, which may cause us to experience a delay between the time we incur expenses and the time revenue is generated from these expenditures. We anticipate that the rate of new orders may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. For risks related to our sales cycles, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption “We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships.” 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from the information provided in the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019. 



Results of Operations







Three months ended May 4, 2019 and May 5, 2018 



Net Revenue





Our net revenue for the three months ended May 4, 2019 increased by $57.8 million compared to net revenue for the three months ended May 5, 2018. This was primarily due to increased sales of our networking products by 40% with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our storage products and other products, which were down 12% and 2% respectively, compared to the three months ended May 5, 2018. 



In the three months ended May 4, 2019, unit shipments were 50% lower and average selling prices increased 41% compared to the three months ended May 5, 2018. 



The US government export restrictions on Huawei were implemented in the second week of our second quarter of fiscal year 2020, limiting revenue from that customer to shipments during a short period during the second quarter of fiscal year 2020. In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business which we cannot easily quantify such as the fact that some of our other customer’s products which use our solutions, such as hard disk drives, may also be impacted by the export restrictions. 



Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit





Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was higher for the three months ended May 4, 2019 compared to the three months ended May 5, 2018. The increase primarily consisted of $60 million of amortization costs related to acquired intangible assets from our acquisition of Cavium. As a result, gross margin for the three months ended May 4, 2019 decreased 7.5 percentage points compared to the three months ended May 5, 2018. 



Research and Development





Research and development expenses increased by $90.1 million in the three months ended May 4, 2019 compared to the three months ended May 5, 2018. The increase was primarily due to additional costs from our acquisition of Cavium, including $78.1 million of higher employee personnel-related costs, $6.2 million of higher computer-aided design software related amortization costs and $6.2 million of higher other personnel-related costs.



Selling, general and administrative





Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $37.7 million in the three months ended May 4, 2019 compared to the three months ended May 5, 2018. The increase was primarily due to additional costs from our acquisition of Cavium, including $19.8 million of intangibles amortization expense, $18.2 million of higher employee personnel-related costs, $3.3 million of higher depreciation and amortization expense, $3.0 million of higher facility-related expenses, partially offset by a decrease of $5.6 million of lower merger-related costs.



Restructuring Related Charges





We recognized $5.7 million of total restructuring related charges in the three months ended May 4, 2019 as the Company continues to evaluate its existing operations to increase operational efficiency, decrease costs and increase profitability. See “Note 9 - Restructuring and Other Related Charges” for further information. 



Interest Income





Interest income decreased by $4.8 million in the three months ended May 4, 2019, compared to the three months ended May 5, 2018. The decrease is primarily due to the sale of investments in fiscal 2019. 



Interest Expense





Interest expense increased by $21.0 million in the three months ended May 4, 2019, compared to the three months ended May 5, 2018. The increase is primarily due to interest expense incurred resulting from the issuance of our 2023 Notes, 2028 Notes and amounts borrowed under our credit agreement. 



Other Income (Loss), Net





Other income (loss), net, was a loss of $0.1 million in the three months ended May 4, 2019, compared to a gain of $1.5 million in the three months ended May 5, 2018. This was primarily due to the foreign currency gain related to the revaluation of foreign currency denominated tax liabilities in the three months ended May 5, 2018. 



Provision (benefit) for Income Taxes





Our income tax expense for the three months ended May 4, 2019 was $7.3 million compared to tax expense of $3.8 million for the three months ended May 5, 2018. Our income tax expense for the three months ended May 4, 2019 differs from the same period in the prior year primarily due to tax expense associated with amounts that were previously considered indefinitely reinvested, foreign income taxable in the U.S., partially offset by the tax benefit from a net reduction in unrecognized tax benefits. The effective tax rate for the three months ended May 4, 2019 and May 5, 2018 differs from the statutory Federal rate of 21% and 35%, respectively, primarily due to non-U.S. earnings that are taxed at a substantially lower tax rate. 





Liquidity and Capital Resources



Our principal source of liquidity as of May 4, 2019 consisted of approximately $572 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $543 million was held by subsidiaries outside of Bermuda. We plan to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions or other financing activities.



In June 2018, we executed debt agreements to obtain a $900 million term loan and $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in order to fund the Cavium acquisition. In addition, we executed a debt agreement in June 2018 to obtain a $500 million Revolving Credit Facility, which was undrawn as of May 4, 2019. See “Note 8 - Debt” for further information. 



We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations, and funds from our Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements and any declared dividends, repurchase of our common stock and commitments for at least the next twelve months. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, costs of securing access to adequate manufacturing capacity, the timing and extent of research and development projects and increases in operating expenses, which are all subject to uncertainty. For a discussion of litigation related risks, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” including the risk detailed under the caption “We have been named as a party to several legal proceedings and may be named in additional ones in the future, including litigation involving our patents and other intellectual property, which could subject us to liability, require us to indemnify our customers, require us to obtain or renew licenses, require us to stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products.”



To the extent that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments together with cash generated by operations, and funds available under our Revolving Credit Facility are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. We may also acquire additional businesses, purchase assets or enter into other strategic arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek debt or equity financing. Additional equity financing or convertible debt financing may be dilutive to our current shareholders. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common shares.



Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common shares and our planned repurchases of common stock will be subject to, among other things, the best interests of the Company and our shareholders, our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements, financial condition, developments in ongoing litigation, statutory requirements under Bermuda law, market conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments and repurchases of common stock may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts.



Cash Flows from Operating Activities







Cash Flows from Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities was $21.0 million for the three months ended May 4, 2019 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $216.7 million for the three months ended May 5, 2018. For the three months ended May 4, 2019, net cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by purchases of property and equipment of $19.2 million and purchases of technology licenses of $1.5 million.



For the three months ended May 5, 2018, net cash provided by investing activities of $216.7 million was primarily driven by net proceeds for sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities and time deposits of $274.1 million, offset by purchases of available-for-sale securities and time deposits of $38.5 million and purchases of property and equipment of $13.6 million. 



Cash Flows from Financing Activities



For the three months ended May 4, 2019, net cash used in financing activities of $155.3 million was primarily attributable to $50.0 million repayment of debt, $48.0 million for repurchases of our common stock, $39.5 million for payment of our quarterly dividends, $28.8 million tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for net share settlements, and $15.3 million payments for technology license obligations. These outflows were partially offset by proceeds of $31.1 million from employee stock plans.



For the three months ended May 5, 2018, net cash used in financing activities of $66.7 million was primarily attributable to $29.8 million for payment of our quarterly dividends, $23.9 million tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for net share settlements, and $20.5 million payments on technology license obligations. These outflows were partially offset by proceeds of $11.1 million from employee stock plans. 



Contractual Obligations and Commitments



We presented our contractual obligations at February 2, 2019 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the three months ended May 4, 2019. 



Indemnification Obligations



See “Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies” in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



There were no sales of unregistered equity securities during the three months ended May 4, 2019.



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

















SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





