Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results to differ materially from those implied by the forward-looking statements. Words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “may,” “can,” “will,” “would” and similar expressions identify such forward-looking statements. 



Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted, include, but are not limited to: 



•our ability to complete acquisitions and dispositions and successfully integrate acquired businesses with our business;



•our ability to realize anticipated synergies in connection with acquired businesses;



•the impact and costs associated with changes in international financial and regulatory conditions such as the addition of new trade tariffs or embargos; 



•the risks associated with manufacturing and selling a majority of our products and our customers’ products outside of the United States;



•the impact of international conflict, trade relations between the U.S. and other countries, and continued economic volatility in either domestic or foreign markets;



•our ability to define, design and develop products for the infrastructure and 5G market and market and sell those products to infrastructure customers;



•the effects of any potential future acquisitions, strategic investments, divestitures, mergers or joint ventures; 



•risks associated with acquisition and consolidation activity in the semiconductor industry;



•our ability and the ability of our customers to successfully compete in the markets in which we serve;



•our dependence upon the storage market, which is highly cyclical and intensely competitive;



•our ability and our customers’ ability to develop new and enhanced products and the adoption of those products in the market;



•the impact of any changes in our application of the United States federal income tax laws and the loss of any beneficial treatment that we currently enjoy; 



•decreases in our gross margin and results of operations in the future due to a number of factors;



•our reliance on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products;



•the effects of transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies;



•our dependence on a small number of customers;



•our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for existing or new products and services;



•our ability to limit costs related to defective products;



•our ability to realize expected benefits from restructuring activities;



•our ability to recruit and retain experienced executive management as well as highly skilled engineering and sales and marketing personnel; 



•our ability to mitigate risks related to our information technology systems;



•our ability to protect our intellectual property;



•our ability to estimate customer demand and future sales accurately;



•our reliance on third-party distributors and manufacturers' representatives to sell our products;



•our maintenance of an effective system of internal controls; 



•severe financial hardship or bankruptcy of one or more of our major customers; and 



•the outcome of pending or future litigation and legal and regulatory proceedings.



Additional factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth in the following discussion, as well as the risks discussed in Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.



Overview



We are a leading supplier of infrastructure semiconductor solutions, spanning the data center core to network edge. We are a fabless semiconductor supplier of high-performance standard and semi-custom products with core strengths in developing and scaling complex System-on-a-Chip architectures integrating analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing functionality. Leveraging leading intellectual property and deep system-level expertise as well as highly innovative security firmware, our solutions are empowering the data economy and enabling communications across 5G, cloud, automotive, industrial and artificial intelligence applications. 



In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, our net revenue decreased year over year by 22% from $851.1 million net revenue in the third quarter fiscal 2019 compared with $662.5 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. The decrease was primarily due to decreased sales of our storage products by 29%, networking product sales by 17% and other product sales by 2%. Our net revenue for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 decreased by $139.5 million compared to net revenue for the nine months ended November 3, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to decreased sales of our storage products by 21%. This



decrease was partially offset by an increase in our networking product sales and other product sales, which increased by 8% and 3%, respectively with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium.



We continue to expect our revenue in the current period to remain impacted by the U.S. Government’s export restrictions on certain Chinese customers.



On May 29, 2019, we announced our intent to sell our Wi-Fi connectivity business to NXP for $1.76 billion in cash. The divestiture encompasses our Wi-Fi and bluetooth technology portfolios and related assets. The business employs approximately 550 people worldwide and generated approximately $300 million in revenue in our fiscal 2019. This transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. As of November 2, 2019, we classified assets held for sale of $600.9 million, which consisted of $30.1 million of inventory, $7.3 million of property, plant and equipment, $557.8 million of goodwill and $5.6 million of right-of-use lease asset. In addition, we classified liabilities held for sale of $5.6 million associated with lease and other liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The purchase price will be subject to working capital and other customary adjustments which will be determined at close. 





Subsequent to quarter end, on November 5, 2019, we acquired Avera Semiconductor (“Avera”), the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (“ASIC”) business of GlobalFoundries (“GlobalFoundries”) for $597.5 million in cash at closing. An additional $90 million in cash will be paid if certain conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months. Avera is a leading provider of Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) semiconductor solutions. We acquired Avera to expand our ASIC Design capabilities. The merger consideration was funded with new debt financing. See Note 8, “Debt” for additional information. 



Capital Return Program. We remain committed to delivering shareholder value through our share repurchase and dividend programs. On October 16, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a $700 million addition to the balance of our existing share repurchase program. Under the program authorized by our Board of Directors, we may repurchase shares in the open-market or through privately negotiated transactions. The extent to which we repurchase our shares and the timing of such repurchases will depend upon market conditions and other corporate considerations, as determined by our management team. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During the three months ended November 2, 2019, we temporarily suspended our share repurchase program in anticipation of the funding of our acquisition of Aquantia. Therefore, there were no share repurchases during the three months ended November 2, 2019. Although share repurchases are temporarily suspended, as of November 2, 2019, there was $890 million remaining available for future share repurchases.



For the nine months ended November 2, 2019, we repurchased 3.0 million shares of our common stock for $64.3 million. As of November 2, 2019, a total of 295.4 million shares have been repurchased to date under our share repurchase programs for a total $3.9 billion in cash. We returned $183.8 million to stockholders in the nine months ended November 2, 2019, including our repurchases of common stock and $119.5 million of cash dividends. 



Cash and Short Term Investments. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $438.4 million at November 2, 2019, which was lower than our balance at our fiscal year ended February 2, 2019 of $582.4 million. The decrease in cash was primarily driven by the purchase consideration paid in connection with the Aquantia acquisition.









We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of our major customers and distributors and believe the distributors’ sales to diverse end customers and geographies further serve to mitigate our exposure to credit risk.



Most of our sales are made to customers located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, and majority of our products are manufactured outside the United States. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 83% and 82% of our net revenue in the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019, and approximately 82% and 88% of net revenue in the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018, respectively. Because many manufacturers and manufacturing subcontractors of our customers are located in Asia, we expect that most of our net revenue will continue to be represented by shipments to our customers in that region. For risks related to our global operations, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption “We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. The occurrence of any or a combination of the additional risks described below would significantly and negatively impact our business and results of operations.”



Historically, a relatively large portion of our sales have been made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term agreements. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. In addition, the development process for our products is long, which may cause us to experience a delay between the time we incur expenses and the time revenue is generated from these expenditures. We anticipate that the rate of new orders may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. For risks related to our sales cycles, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption “We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships.” 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



There have been no material changes during the three months ended November 2, 2019 to our critical accounting policies and estimates from the information provided in the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019. 



Results of Operations







Three and nine months ended November 2, 2019 and November 3, 2018 



Net Revenue





Our net revenue for the three months ended November 2, 2019 decreased by $188.6 million compared to net revenue for the three months ended November 3, 2018. This was primarily due to decreased sales of our storage, networking, and other products by 29%, 17% and 2% respectively, compared to the three months ended November 3, 2018. The decreased sales of our storage and networking products were primarily due to broad macroeconomic-related demand weakness. In addition, sales of our storage products were impacted by rebalancing of inventory levels in our customers' supply chains, softening demand in gaming and video surveillance applications and the ongoing shift from HDD's to SSD's in personal computers. The sales of our networking products were also impacted particularly by demand weakness from the enterprise end market. In addition, sales of our storage and networking products were impacted by the U.S. Government’s export restrictions on certain Chinese customers. 



Our net revenue for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 decreased by $139.5 million compared to net revenue for the nine months ended November 3, 2018. This was primarily due to decreased sales of our storage products by 21%, compared to the nine months ended November 3, 2018. This decrease was partially offset by increased sales of our networking products and other products by 8% and 3%, respectively, with sales benefiting from our acquisition of Cavium. The decreased sales of our storage products were primarily due to broad macroeconomic-related demand weakness, rebalancing of inventory levels in our customers' supply chains, softening demand in gaming and video surveillance and the ongoing shift from HDD's to SSD's in personal computers. In addition, sales of our storage and networking products were impacted by the U.S. Government’s export restrictions on certain Chinese customers.



In the three months ended November 2, 2019, unit shipments were 11% lower and average selling prices decreased 10% compared to the three months ended November 3, 2018. In the nine months ended November 2, 2019, unit shipments were 19% lower and average selling prices increased 10% compared to the nine months ended November 3, 2018. 



Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit





Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was lower for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the three months ended November 3, 2018, which primarily resulted from the fiscal 2019 amortization of inventory fair value adjustment associated with the Cavium acquisition, partially offset by increased costs from amortization of acquired intangible assets in fiscal 2020. As a result, gross margin for the three months ended November 2, 2019 increased 6.2 percentage points compared to the three months ended November 3, 2018. 



Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was higher for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the nine months ended November 3, 2018, driven by increased costs from amortization of acquired intangible assets in fiscal 2020, partially offset by the fiscal 2019 amortization of inventory fair value adjustment associated with the Cavium acquisition. As a result, gross margin for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 decreased 0.5 percentage points compared to the nine months ended November 3, 2018.



Research and Development





Research and development expenses increased by $2.9 million in the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the three months ended November 3, 2018. The increase was primarily due to $13.5 million of higher employee personnel-related costs primarily due to additional costs from our acquisition of Aquantia, and $3.6 million of higher engineering design costs partially offset by increased non-recurring engineering credits of $13.6 million recognized in the current period.



Research and development expenses increased by $143.1 million in the nine months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the nine months ended November 3, 2018. The increase was primarily due to additional costs associated with our acquisition of Cavium and Aquantia, including $146.8 million of higher employee personnel-related costs.



Selling, general and administrative





Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $6.8 million in the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the three months ended November 3, 2018. The increase was primarily due to additional costs associated with our acquisition of Aquantia, including $7.4 million of increased integration costs, $5.9 million higher employee personnel-related costs, partially offset by $4.1 million lower facilities costs related to Cavium restructured facilities in fiscal 2019, $1.4 million lower sales commission costs and $1.0 million lower patent legal costs. 



Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $24.8 million in the nine months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the nine months ended November 3, 2018. The increase was primarily due to additional costs associated with our acquisition of Cavium and Aquantia, including $32.2 million of higher intangibles amortization expense, $4.9 million of higher depreciation and amortization expense and a $5.5 million SEC settlement as discussed in “Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies,” partially offset by lower integration costs of $19.2 million as the Cavium acquisition. 



Restructuring Related Charges





We recognized $14.8 million and $37.1 million of total restructuring related charges in the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019 as we continue to evaluate our existing operations to increase operational efficiency, decrease costs and increase profitability. See “Note 9 - Restructuring and Other Related Charges” for further information. 



Interest Income





Interest income was relatively flat in the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the three months ended November 3, 2018. 



Interest income decreased by 7.3 million in the nine months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the nine months ended November 3, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to the sale of investments in fiscal 2019. 



Interest Expense





Interest expense decreased by $1.1 million in the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the three months ended November 3, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower outstanding term loan balances. 



Interest expense increased by $24.6 million in the nine months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the nine months ended November 3, 2018. The increase was primarily due to interest expense incurred for a full nine months in fiscal 2020 resulting from the issuance of our 2023 Notes, 2028 Notes and amounts borrowed under our credit agreement. 



Other Income (Loss), Net





Other income (loss), net, changed by $3.3 million in the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the three months ended November 3, 2018. The change was primarily due to the receipt of proceeds in the current period from the sale of a business in fiscal 2019 compared with a loss from the sale of a business in the prior period. 



 Other income (loss), net, changed by $2.2 million in the nine months ended November 3, 2018 compared to the nine months ended November 3, 2018. The change was primarily due to the realized loss on the sale of investments and the sale of a business in fiscal 2019, which was partially offset by foreign currency gain related to the revaluation of foreign currency denominated tax liabilities in the prior period and the receipt of proceeds in the current period from the sale of a business in fiscal 2019. 



Provision (benefit) for Income Taxes





Our income tax expense for the three months ended November 2, 2019 was $1.5 million compared to a tax expense of $9.3 million for the three months ended November 3, 2018. Our income tax expense for the three months ended November 2, 2019 differs from the same period in the prior year primarily due to a reduction in our U.S. pre-tax losses in the period, combined with a decrease of uncertain tax benefits recorded in the three months ended November 3, 2018. The effective tax rate for the three months ended November 2, 2019 and November 3, 2018 differs from the statutory Federal rate of 21% primarily due to non-U.S. earnings that are taxed at a substantially lower tax rate. 



Our income tax benefit for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 was $1.7 million compared to a tax benefit of $16.9 million for the nine months ended November 3, 2018. Our income tax benefit for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 differs from the same period in the prior year primarily due to a reduction in our U.S. pre-tax losses in the period, combined with a decrease of uncertain tax benefits recorded in the nine months ended November 3, 2018. The effective tax rate for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 and November 3, 2018 differs from the statutory Federal rate of 21% primarily due to non-U.S. earnings that are taxed at a substantially lower tax rate. 





Liquidity and Capital Resources



Our principal source of liquidity as of November 2, 2019 consisted of approximately $438 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $388 million was held by subsidiaries outside of Bermuda. We plan to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions or other financing activities.



In June 2018, we executed debt agreements to obtain a $900 million term loan and $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in order to fund the Cavium acquisition. In addition, we executed a debt agreement in June 2018 to obtain a $500 million Revolving Credit Facility. On September 17, 2019, we drew down $350 million on the Revolving Credit Facility to fund a portion of the cash consideration for the Aquantia acquisition. Subsequent to quarter end, on November 4, 2019, we entered into a Term Credit Agreement with certain lenders which provides for borrowings of $600 million in the form of a Bridge Loan in order to fund the Avera acquisition. See “Note 8 - Debt” for additional information. 



We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations, and funds from our Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements and any declared dividends, repurchase of our common stock and commitments for at least the next twelve months. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, costs of securing access to adequate manufacturing capacity, the timing and extent of research and development projects and increases in operating expenses, which are all subject to uncertainty. 



To the extent that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments together with cash generated by operations, and funds available under our Revolving Credit Facility are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. We may also acquire additional businesses, purchase assets or enter into other strategic arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek debt or equity financing. Additional equity financing or convertible debt financing may be dilutive to our current shareholders. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common shares.



Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common shares and our planned repurchases of common stock will be subject to, among other things, the best interests of us and our shareholders, our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements, financial condition, statutory requirements under Bermuda law, market conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments and repurchases of common stock may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. During the three months ended November 2, 2019, we temporarily suspended our share repurchase program in anticipation of the funding of our acquisition of Aquantia.



Cash Flows from Operating Activities







Cash Flows from Investing Activities



For the nine months ended November 2, 2019, net cash used in investing activities of $525.4 million was primarily driven by net cash paid to acquire Aquantia of $477.6 million, purchases of property and equipment of $62.9 million, and purchases of technology licenses of $1.9 million, partially offset by proceeds from sale of available-for-sale securities acquired from Aquantia of $18.8 million.



Net cash flow used in investing activities was $1.8 billion for the nine months ended November 3, 2018, primarily driven by net cash paid to acquire Cavium of $2.6 billion, partially offset by proceeds for sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities and time deposits of $986.9 million. 



Cash Flows from Financing Activities



For the nine months ended November 2, 2019, net cash used in financing activities of $76.9 million was primarily attributable to $119.5 million for payment of our quarterly dividends, $80.9 million tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for net share settlements, $64.3 million for repurchases of our common stock, $57.2 million payments for technology license obligations and $50.0 million repayment of debt principal. These outflows were partially offset by $350.0 million proceeds from issuance of debt and $103.1 million proceeds from employee stock plans.



For the nine months ended November 3, 2018, net cash provided by financing activities of $1.0 billion was primarily attributable to $1.9 billion proceeds from issuance of debt and $60.8 million proceeds from employee stock plans, partially offset by $681.1 million repayment of debt,$108.6 million for payment of our quarterly dividends, $52.5 million payment for technology license obligation and $54.0 million for repurchase of our common stock. 



Contractual Obligations and Commitments



We presented our contractual obligations at February 2, 2019 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019, other than the draw down of the Revolving Credit Facility described at “Note 8 - Debt”. 



Subsequent to quarter end, on November 4, 2019, we entered into a Term Credit Agreement with certain lenders which provides for borrowings of $600 million in the form of a Bridge Loan. See “Note 8 - Debt” for further information. 



Indemnification Obligations



See “Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies” in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



There were no sales of unregistered equity securities during the three months ended November 2, 2019.



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



During the three months ended November 2, 2019, we temporarily suspended our share repurchase program in anticipation of the funding of our acquisition of Aquantia. Therefore, there were no share repurchases during the three months ended November 2, 2019. Although share repurchases are temporarily suspended, we have $890.0 million of repurchase authority remaining under our current share repurchase program. 









SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.





