Our products bring a number of important benefits to the power-conversion market compared with less advanced alternatives, including reduced component count and design complexity, smaller size, higher reliability and reduced time-to-market. Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficacy of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
•Increase our penetration of the markets we serve. We currently address AC-DC applications with power outputs up to approximately 500 watts, gate-driver applications of approximately ten kilowatts and higher, and motor-drive applications up to approximately 300 watts. Through our research and development efforts, we seek to introduce more advanced products for these markets offering higher levels of integration and performance compared to earlier products. We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products. These tools and services include our PI Expert™ design software, which we offer free of charge, and our transformer-sample service.
Our market-penetration strategy also includes capitalizing on the importance of energy efficiency in the power conversion market. For example, our EcoSmart™ technology drastically reduces the amount of energy consumed by electronic products when they are not in use, helping our customers comply with regulations that seek to curb this so-called “standby” energy consumption. Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, renewable-energy installations and electric transportation applications.
•Increase the size of our addressable market. Prior to 2010 our addressable market consisted of AC-DC applications with up to about 50 watts of output, a served available market (“SAM”) opportunity of approximately $1.5 billion. Since that time we have expanded our SAM to approximately $4 billion through a variety of means. These include the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families, which address applications up to about 500 watts) and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012. In 2016 we introduced the SCALE-iDriverTM family of gate-driver ICs, broadening the range of gate-driver applications we can address. In 2018 we introduced our BridgeSwitch™ motor-driver ICs, as described above.
Also contributing to our SAM expansion has been the emergence of new applications within the power ranges that our products can address. For example, applications such as LED lighting, “smart” utility meters, battery-powered lawn equipment and bicycles, and USB power ports (installed alongside traditional AC wall outlets) can incorporate our products; the increased use of electronic intelligence and controls in consumer appliances has also enhanced our SAM. Finally, we have enhanced our SAM by increasing the level of integration of our products, which in turn increases their value. For example, our InnoSwitch™ ICs integrate circuitry from the secondary, or low-voltage, side of AC-DC power supplies, whereas earlier product families integrated circuitry only on the primary, or high-voltage side.
We intend to continue expanding our SAM in the years ahead through all of the means described above.
Our net revenues were $89.2 million and $103.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Net revenues decreased compared with the same period in the prior year reflecting a broad-based decline in demand across all end markets.
Our top ten customers, including distributors that resell to OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for 52% and 58% of our net revenues in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our top customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for approximately 13% and 16% of our net revenues in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. International sales accounted for 97% and 96% of our net revenues in the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Our gross margin was 51% and 52% in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in gross margin was due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs.
Net revenues.  Net revenues consist of revenues from product sales, which are calculated net of returns and allowances. Net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were $89.2 million and $103.1 million, respectively. Net revenues decreased compared with the same period in the prior year reflecting a broad-based decline in demand across all end markets.
International sales, consisting of sales outside of the United States of America based on “bill to” customer locations, were $86.5 million and $99.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Although power converters using our products are distributed to end markets worldwide, most are manufactured in Asia. As a result, sales to this region represented 75% and 76%, of our net revenues in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We expect international sales, and sales to the Asia region in particular, to continue to account for a large portion of our net revenues in the future.
Sales to distributors accounted for 78% and 77% of net revenues in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
In each of the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, one customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues.
 No other customers accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues in these periods.
The decrease in gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared with the same period in the prior year, was due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs.
The increase in other income in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018 was primarily due to an increase in interest income reflecting higher yields earned on our cash and investments.
Operating activities generated cash of $1.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Net income for this period was $7.2 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization and deferred income taxes of $4.4 million, $4.6 million, $1.3 million and $1.2 million, respectively. Sources of cash also included a $1.2 million increase in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments. These sources of cash were mostly offset by a $9.3 million increase in accounts receivable due to the timing of customer shipments, a $4.2 million increase in inventory reflecting a combination of the recent market slowdown and anticipation of demand and a $4.2 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by advances to suppliers, prepaid legal fees and prepaid taxes.
Our investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2019, resulted in a $1.7 million net use of cash, primarily consisting of $3.5 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment, partially offset by $2.0 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases. Our investing activities provided $45.4 million of cash in the three months ended March 31, 2018, consisting of $52.4 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $6.5 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment.
Our financing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2019, resulted in a $7.7 million net use of cash, consisting of $7.3 million for the repurchase of our common stock and $4.9 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders. These uses of cash were offset in part by $4.5 million from the issuance of common stock, including the exercise of employee stock options and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan. Our financing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2018, resulted in a $33.4 million net use of cash, consisting of $33.3 million for the repurchase of our common stock and $4.8 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders. These uses of cash were offset in part by $4.7 million from the issuance of common stock, including the exercise of employee stock options and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan.
On July 27, 2016, we entered into a Credit Agreement with a bank (the "Credit Agreement") that provides us with a $75.0 million revolving line of credit to use for general corporate purposes with a $20.0 million sub-limit for the issuance of standby and trade letters of credit. We amended the Credit Agreement on April 30, 2018, to extend the termination date from July 26, 2019, to April 30, 2022, with all other terms remaining the same. Our ability to borrow under the revolving line of credit is conditioned upon our compliance with specified covenants, including reporting and financial covenants, primarily a minimum liquidity measure and a debt to earnings ratio, with which we are currently in compliance. The Credit Agreement terminates on April 30, 2022; all advances under the revolving line of credit will become due on such date, or earlier in the event of a default. As of March 31, 2019, we had no amounts outstanding under our agreement.
In January 2018, our board of directors declared four cash dividends in the amount of $0.16 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of each quarter in 2018. We paid a total of $18.8 million in cash dividends in 2018. In January 2019, our board of directors declared four quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.17 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of each quarter in 2019. A dividend payout of $4.9 million occurred on March 29, 2019. The declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders.
As of March 31, 2019, there were no material changes in our contractual commitments from those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
parties to fund our operations. We believe that cash generated from operations, together with existing sources of liquidity, will satisfy our projected working capital and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements or relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which are typically established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
In the three months ended March 31, 2019, we purchased approximately 121,000 shares for approximately $7.3 million. As of March 31, 2019, we had approximately $43.9 million remaining in our repurchase program, which has no expiration date.
All of the shares repurchased were pursuant to our publicly announced repurchase program.
All references in the table above to previously filed documents or descriptions are incorporating those documents and descriptions by reference thereto.
