The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Power Integrations, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates
No material changes have been made to the Company's significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 14, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In February 2016, the FASB amended the existing accounting standards for leases, ASU 2016-02, Leases. The amendments require lessees to recognize, on the balance sheet, assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by leases of greater than twelve months. The accounting by lessors will remain largely unchanged from that applied under previous U.S. GAAP. The Company is required to adopt the amendments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, with early adoption permitted. The amendments require a modified retrospective transition approach to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments and the transition alternatives on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
Accounts Receivable
Inventories
Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets
Intangible Assets
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
The Company's cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
The Company did not transfer any investments between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy in the six months ended June 30, 2018, and the twelve months ended December 31, 2017.
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2018, was approximately $6.1 million (comprising approximately $3.9 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $1.8 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.4 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan). In the six months ended June 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $11.7 million (comprising approximately $8.2 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, $2.7 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.8 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended June 30, 2017, was approximately $6.3 million (comprising approximately $3.7 million related to RSUs, $2.3 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan). In the six months ended June 30, 2017, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $11.3 million (comprising approximately $7.2 million related to RSUs, $3.5 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.6 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
Stock Options
Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met. The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance. The performance metrics of this program are annual targets consisting of a combination of net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals.
As the net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals are considered performance conditions, expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the service period based on an assessment of the achievement of the performance targets. The fair value of these PSUs is determined using the fair value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant, reduced by the discounted present value of dividends expected to be declared before the awards vest. If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
In January 2018, it was determined that approximately 79,000 shares of the PSUs granted in 2017, vested in aggregate and were released to the Company’s employees and executives in the first quarter of 2018.
  The Company's PRSU program provides for the issuance of PRSUs which will vest based on the Company's performance measured against the PRSU program's established revenue targets. PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met. The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number. The performance goals for PRSUs granted in fiscal 2016, 2017 and 2018 were based on the Company’s annual revenue growth over the respective three-year performance period.
Expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recorded throughout the year depending on the number of shares expected to vest based on progress toward the performance target. If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
In January 2018, it was determined that approximately 38,000 shares of the PRSUs granted in 2015, vested in aggregate and were released to the Company’s executives in the first quarter of 2018.
The Company is organized and operates as one reportable segment, the design, development, manufacture and marketing of integrated circuits and related components for use primarily in the high-voltage power-conversion market. The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance.
Customer Concentration
The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 59% and 58% of net revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and approximately 57% of net revenues in the corresponding periods of 2017. A significant portion of these revenues are attributable to sales of the Company’s products to distributors of electronic components. These distributors sell the Company’s products to a broad, diverse range of end users, including OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers. Sales to distributors were $83.0 million and $162.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and $85.5 million and $166.1 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2017. Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
In each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, one customer, a distributor of the Company's products, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues.
No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s net revenues in the periods presented.
Concentration of Credit Risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash investments and trade receivables. The Company does not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to its customers. As 
of June 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, 65% and 64%, respectively, of accounts receivable were concentrated with the Company’s top 10 customers. As of June 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, one customer, a distributor of the Company’s products, represented 10% or more of the Company’s accounts receivable.
No other customer represented 10% or more of the Company’s accounts receivable as of the dates presented.
Geographic Net Revenues
Cash Dividends
 Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average shares of common stock 
and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive common equivalent shares included in this calculation consist of dilutive shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of outstanding common stock options, the assumed vesting of outstanding restricted stock units, the assumed issuance of awards under the stock purchase plan and contingently issuable performance-based awards, as computed using the treasury stock method. 
In the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, no outstanding stock awards were determined to be anti-dilutive and therefore excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share.
U.S. Tax Reform 
As of June 30, 2018, the Company maintained a valuation allowance on its California deferred tax assets, New Jersey deferred tax assets, and capital losses for federal purposes, and a valuation allowance with respect to its deferred tax assets relating to tax credits in Canada.
Supplier Agreements
Under the terms of the Company's wafer-supply agreements with Seiko Epson Corporation ("Epson"), and ROHM Lapis Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ("Lapis") the wafers purchased from these suppliers are priced in U.S. dollars; however, these agreements also allow for mutual sharing of the impact of the exchange rate fluctuation between Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar on future purchases. Each year, the Company's management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing is denominated in U.S. dollars but is subject to contractual exchange rate provisions. The fluctuation in the exchange rate is shared equally between the Company and each of these suppliers on future purchases.
On October 20, 2004, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”) in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. 
In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has and is infringing four of Power Integrations’ patents pertaining to pulse width modulation (PWM) integrated circuit devices. Fairchild denied infringement and asked for a declaration from the court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid. The Court issued a claim construction order on March 31, 2006 which was favorable to the Company. The Court set a first trial on the issues of infringement, willfulness and damages for October 2, 2006. At the close of the first trial, on October 10, 2006, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company finding all asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit to be willfully infringed by Fairchild and awarding $34.0 million in damages. Fairchild raised defenses contending that the asserted patents are invalid or unenforceable, and the Court held a second trial on these issues beginning on September 17, 2007. On September 21, 2007, the jury returned a verdict in the Company’s favor, affirming the validity of the asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit. Fairchild submitted further materials on the issue of enforceability along with various other post-trial motions, and the Company filed post-trial motions seeking a permanent injunction and increased damages and attorneys’ fees, among other things. On September 24, 2008, the Court denied Fairchild’s motion regarding enforceability and ruled that all four patents are enforceable. On December 12, 2008, the Court ruled on the remaining post-trial motions, including granting a permanent injunction, reducing the damages award to $6.1 million, granting Fairchild a new trial on the issue of willful infringement in view of an intervening change in the law, and denying the Company’s motion for increased damages and attorneys’ fees with leave to renew the motion after the resolution of the issue of willful infringement. On December 22, 2008, at Fairchild’s request, the Court temporarily stayed the permanent injunction for 90 days. On January 12, 2009, Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the Court’s refusal to enter a more permanent stay of the injunction, and Fairchild filed additional motions requesting that both the Federal Circuit and the District Court extend the stay of injunction. The District Court temporarily extended the stay pending the Federal Circuit ruling on Fairchild’s pending motion, but the Federal Circuit dismissed Fairchild’s appeal and denied its motion on May 5, 2009, and the District Court issued an order on May 13, 2009 confirming the reinstatement of the permanent injunction as originally entered in December 2008. On June 22, 2009, the Court held a brief bench re-trial on the issue of willful infringement. On July 22, 2010, the Court found that Fairchild willfully infringed all four of the asserted patents, and the Court also invited briefing on enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees. Fairchild also filed a motion requesting that the Court amend its findings regarding willfulness. On January 18, 2011, the Court denied Fairchild’s request to amend the findings regarding Fairchild’s willful infringement and doubled the damages award against Fairchild but declined to award attorneys’ fees. On February 3, 2011, the Court entered final judgment in favor of the Company for a total damages award of $12.9 million. Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the final judgment and a number of the underlying rulings, and the Company filed a cross-appeal seeking to increase the damages award. The appeal was argued on January 11, 2012, and the Federal Circuit issued a mixed ruling on March 26, 2013, affirming Fairchild’s infringement of certain claims that support the basis for the permanent injunction while reversing, vacating, and remanding the findings with respect to other claims, including the Company’s claim for damages. The Company filed a petition seeking Supreme Court review of the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages issues, and the Supreme Court called for a response from Fairchild but ultimately declined to review the case. On remand, the District Court reinstated the prior findings that Fairchild willfully infringed three of the Company’s patents; the Company intends to pursue its claim for financial compensation based on Fairchild’s infringement.
On May 23, 2008, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has infringed and is infringing three patents pertaining to power supply controller integrated circuit devices. Fairchild answered the Company’s complaint on November 7, 2008, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent and that the patents are invalid and unenforceable. Fairchild’s answer also included counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing three patents pertaining to primary side power conversion integrated circuit devices. Fairchild had earlier brought these same claims in a separate suit against the Company, also in Delaware, which Fairchild dismissed in favor of adding its claims to the Company’s already pending suit against Fairchild. The Company has answered Fairchild’s counterclaims, denying infringement and asking for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Fairchild patent and that the Fairchild patents are invalid. Fairchild also filed a motion to stay the case, but the Court denied that motion on December 19, 2008. On March 5, 2009, Fairchild filed a motion for summary judgment to preclude any recovery for post-verdict sales of parts found to infringe in the parties’ other ongoing litigation, described above, and the Company filed its opposition and a cross-motion to preclude Fairchild from re-litigating the issues of infringement and damages for those same products. On June 26, 2009, the Court held a hearing on the parties’ motions, and on July 9, 2009 the Court issued an order denying the parties’ motions but staying proceedings with respect to the products that were found to infringe and which are subject to the injunction in the other Delaware case between the parties pending the entry of final judgment in that case; those products are expected to be addressed in the context of the parties’ remand proceedings following the appeal in their earlier litigation in Delaware, and the remainder of the case is proceeding. On December 18, 2009, the Court issued an order construing certain terms in the asserted claims of the Company’s and Fairchild’s patents in suit. Following the Court’s ruling on claim construction, Fairchild withdrew its claim related to one of its patents and significantly reduced the number of claims asserted for the remaining two patents. The parties thereafter filed and argued a number of motions for summary judgment, and the Court denied the majority of the parties’ motions but granted the Company’s motion to preclude Fairchild from re-arguing validity positions that were rejected in the prior case between the parties. Because the 
assigned Judge retired at the end of July 2010, the case was re-assigned to a different Judge, and the Court vacated the trial schedule and had the parties provide their input on the appropriate course of action. The Court thereafter set a trial schedule with the jury trial on infringement and validity to begin in July 2011. On April 18, 2011, the Court rescheduled the trial to begin in January 2012, and on June 2, 2011, the Court moved the trial date to April 2012 to permit the parties to address another patent the Company accused Fairchild of infringing. Following a trial in April 2012, the jury returned a verdict finding that Fairchild infringes two of the Company’s patents, that Fairchild has induced others to infringe the Company’s patents, and also upheld the validity of the infringed patents. Of the two remaining counterclaim patents Fairchild asserted in the case, one was found not to be infringed, but the jury found the second patent to be infringed by a limited number of the Company’s products, although the jury further found the Company did not induce infringement by any customers, including customers outside the United States. On March 29, 2013, the District Court denied most of the parties’ post-trial motions on liability but granted the Company’s motion for judgment as a matter of law finding that Fairchild infringed another of the Company’s patents. On April 25, 2013, the Court denied both parties’ motions regarding the unenforceability of each other’s patents. The Company challenged adverse findings on appeal; nevertheless, the Company estimated that even if the verdict on Fairchild’s patent had ultimately been upheld, the sales potentially impacted would have amounted to less than 0.5% of the Company’s revenues. The Company requested an injunction preventing further infringement of its own patents by Fairchild, and Fairchild requested an injunction as well. Following a hearing on the issue in June 2014, the Court denied Fairchild’s request for an injunction against the Company and granted the Company’s request for an injunction against Fairchild. On January 13, 2015, the District Court entered final judgment on the liability and validity issues discussed above, and both parties filed appeals with the Federal Circuit. After briefing was completed, oral argument on the appeal took place in early July 2016, and on December 12, 2016, the Federal Circuit issued its opinion in the appeal, overturning the lone infringement verdict against the Company, finding one of the Company’s patents invalid, and overturning the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement. In view of the Federal Circuit’s rejection of the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement, the Court also vacated the inducement findings and associated injunction against Fairchild and remanded the case for a retrial on inducement, but the underlying validity and infringement findings against Fairchild on those two patents remain intact. On remand, the Company will also be seeking financial damages as well as enhanced damages for Fairchild’s willful infringement.
On June 28, 2004, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, against System General Corporation (SG), a Taiwanese company, and its U.S. subsidiary. The Company’s complaint alleged that certain integrated circuits produced by SG infringed and continue to infringe certain of its patents. On June 10, 2005, in response to the initiation of an International Trade Commission (ITC) investigation on the patents asserted in the District Court lawsuit, the District Court stayed all proceedings. Subsequent to the completion of the ITC proceedings, the District Court temporarily lifted the stay and scheduled a case management conference. On December 6, 2006, SG filed a notice of appeal of the ITC decision. In response, and by agreement of the parties, the District Court vacated the scheduled case management conference and renewed the stay of proceedings pending the outcome of the Federal Circuit appeal of the ITC determination. On November 19, 2007, the Federal Circuit affirmed the ITC’s findings in all respects, and SG did not file a petition for review. The parties subsequently filed a motion to dismiss the District Court case without prejudice. On November 4, 2009, the Company re-filed its complaint for patent infringement against SG and its parent corporations, Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, to address their continued infringement of patents at issue in the original suit that recently emerged from SG requested reexamination proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). The Company seeks, among other things, an order enjoining SG and Fairchild from infringing the Company’s patents and an award of damages resulting from the alleged infringement. Fairchild has denied infringement and asked for a declaration from the Court that it does not infringe any Power Integrations patent, that the patents are invalid, and that one of the two of the Company’s patents now at issue in the case is unenforceable. On May 5, 2010, SG and Fairchild filed an amended answer including counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing two patents, and later Fairchild withdrew its claim for infringement of one of the patents it originally asserted against the Company but added another patent to the case over the Company’s objections. Both parties filed summary judgment motions and challenges to each other’s experts’ testimony, and the Court granted the Company’s motion for summary judgment of non-infringement with respect to one of Fairchild’s two patents. Following a trial on the remaining claims in February 2014, the jury returned a verdict in the Company’s favor, affirming the validity of the asserted claims of the Company’s patents-in-suit, finding that SG and Fairchild infringed the Company’s asserted patents and induced infringement by others, and awarding $105.0 million in damages. The Jury also rejected Fairchild’s remaining counterclaims for infringement against the Company. Fairchild challenged these rulings in post-trial motions, but the judge confirmed the jury’s determinations on infringement and damages, although the Court declined to find Fairchild’s infringement willful. Fairchild also pressed its unenforceability claim with respect to one of the two patents it was found to infringe in post-trial briefing, but the Court rejected Fairchild’s unenforceability claim. Fairchild also requested reconsideration of the damages determinations, and the Court granted a new trial with respect to damages but none of the other issues addressed in the previous trial, with the retrial scheduled for December 2015. Thereafter, the parties completed pretrial proceedings challenging each other’s experts, and the Court granted portions of each party’s motions limiting the scope of expert testimony for purposes of the damages retrial, but neither party was successful in their efforts to prevent the other side’s experts from testifying at trial. Following a retrial on the issue of damages in December 2015, the jury returned a verdict in the Company’s favor, finding that the Company’s patented technology created the basis for customer demand for the infringing Fairchild products and awarding $139.8 million in damages. Although the jury awarded 
On July 11, 2011, the Company filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court, District of Columbia, against David Kappos in his capacity as Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) as part of the ongoing reexamination proceedings related to one of the patents asserted against Fairchild and SG in the Delaware litigation described above. The Company filed a motion for summary judgment on a preliminary jurisdictional issue, and the PTO filed a cross-motion to dismiss on this same issue; briefing on those motions was completed in October, 2011. On November 18, 2013, the Court granted the PTO’s motion and transferred the case to the Federal Circuit, where additional briefing took place. Following a hearing in May 2015, the Federal Circuit ruled in the Company’s favor on August 12, 2015, overturning the PTO’s claim construction and remanding the case for further proceedings. On remand, the PTO ignored the Federal Circuit’s guidance, so the Company filed another appeal to the Federal Circuit; in that second appeal, the Federal Circuit overturned the PTO’s rulings and confirmed the validity of the challenged claims of the Company’s patent on March 19, 2018.
On April 1, 2016, Opticurrent, LLC filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. In its complaint, Opticurrent alleges that the Company has infringed and is infringing one patent pertaining to transistor switch devices. The Company filed a motion to transfer the case to California, which the Court granted, and the case was assigned to a new judge in San Francisco following the transfer. Further proceedings are expected over the course of the coming months, with trial scheduled for February 2019. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself against Opticurrent’s claims.
On August 11, 2016, ON Semiconductor filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona. In its complaint, ON Semiconductor alleged that the Company has infringed and is infringing six patents and requested injunctive relief. The Company filed a motion to transfer the case to the Northern District of California, which the Court granted, and the case has been consolidated with the Company’s affirmative case against ON Semiconductor in the Northern District of California, as discussed below. The Company believes it has valid defenses and intends to vigorously defend itself against ON Semiconductor’s claims.
On November 1, 2016, the Company filed a lawsuit against ON Semiconductor in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California to address ON Semiconductor’s infringement of six patents. The court denied ON Semiconductor’s motion requesting that the case be transferred to Arizona and scheduled trial for December of 2019, with interim deadlines for hearing claim construction and dispositive motions. In consolidating the pleadings from the California and Arizona cases following the transfer of ON Semiconductor’s case from Arizona, ON Semiconductor asserted two additional patents, bringing the total number of patents asserted against the Company to eight in this case, and ON Semiconductor’s amended complaint also seeks a declaration of non-infringement with respect to another of the Company’s patents that was previously asserted against Fairchild Semiconductor. Further proceedings and discovery will take place over the coming months, with a trial scheduled for December of 2019.
On December 27, 2016, ON Semiconductor filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. In its complaint, ON Semiconductor alleged that the Company has infringed and is infringing six patents and requests injunctive relief. On March 9, 2017, ON Semiconductor dismissed its Texas complaint and re-filed a substantially similar complaint in the District of Delaware. After the Company filed a motion to dismiss, ON Semiconductor filed an amended complaint; the Company has answered ON Semiconductor’s complaint and asserted claims for infringement of several of the Company’s patents. Trial has been scheduled for February of 2020, with interim deadlines for discovery and claim construction, and the Company believes it has valid defenses and intends to vigorously defend itself against ON Semiconductor’s claims.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
