Overview 
National Instruments Corporation (the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our”) designs, manufactures and sells systems to engineers and scientists that accelerate productivity, innovation and discovery. Our software-centric platform provides integrated software and modular hardware that speeds the development of systems needing measurement and control. We believe our long-term vision and focus on technology supports the success of our customers, employees, suppliers and stockholders. We sell to a large number of customers in a wide variety of industries. We have been profitable in every year since 1990. 
Expanding our broad customer base 
We strive to increase our already broad customer base and to grow our large order business by serving a large market on many computer platforms, through a global marketing and distribution network. We also seek to acquire new technologies and expertise from time to time to open new opportunities for our existing product portfolio. 
To maintain a high level of customer satisfaction we strive to offer innovative, modular and integrated products through a global sales and support network. We strive to maintain a high degree of backwards compatibility across different platforms to preserve the customer’s investment in our products. In this time of intense global competition, we believe that it is crucial that we continue to offer products with high quality and reliability, and that our products provide cost-effective solutions for our customers. 
Leveraging external and internal technology 
Leveraging a worldwide sales, distribution and manufacturing network 
Current business outlook 
Many of the industries we serve have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. In assessing our business, we consider the trends in the Global Purchasing Managers’ Index (“PMI”), global industrial production as well as industry reports on the specific vertical industries that we target. Historically, our business cycles have generally followed the expansion and contraction cycles in the global industrial economy as measured by the Global PMI. In the three month period ended March 31, 2018, the average of the Global PMI was 54.0 and the average of the new order element of the Global PMI was 54.8. Although these readings are indicative of expansion in the industrial sector we are unable to predict whether the industrial economy, as measured by the PMI, will remain above the neutral reading of 50, strengthen or contract during the remainder of 2018.
Since the first quarter of 2017 we have been taking steps to reduce our overall employee headcount in an effort to shift and centralize activities, improve efficiencies, and rebalance our resources on higher return activities. We expect to incur an additional $2 million to $3 million in severance and other restructuring-related charges, net of tax, by the end of 2018, most of which we expect to incur in the second quarter of 2018. 
We have hedging programs in place to help mitigate the risks associated with foreign currency risks. However, there can be no assurance the hedges will offset more than a portion of the financial impact resulting from movements in the foreign currency markets in which we do business. (See “Note 5 – Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to consolidated financial statements for additional details concerning hedging programs.)
Results of Operations 
 Figures may not sum due to rounding.
Results of Operations for the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 
Net Sales. The following table sets forth our net sales for the three month periods ending March 31, 2018 and 2017 along with the changes between the corresponding periods.
Figures may not sum due to rounding.
The following table sets forth our net sales by geographic region for the three month period ending March 31, 2018 and 2017 along with the changes between the corresponding periods and the region’s percentage of total net sales.
Figures may not sum due to rounding.
 Figures may not sum due to rounding.
To help protect against changes in U.S. dollar equivalent value caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from international sales, we have instituted a foreign currency cash flow hedging program. We hedge portions of our forecasted net sales denominated in foreign currencies with average rate forward contracts. During the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of decreasing our net sales by $(2.6) million and increasing our net sales by $2.1 million, respectively. (See “Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding our cash flow hedging program and its related impact on our net sales for 2018 and 2017). 
We adopted the new revenue standard during the first quarter of 2018. Due to the timing of renewals for certain large subscription software arrangements, the impact of adopting the new revenue standard increased our net sales by approximately $6 million in the first quarter of 2018. We do not expect the adoption of the new revenue standard to have a significant impact on our net sales during the remainder of 2018. (See “Note 2 - Revenue” of Notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding the impact of the new revenue standard on our net sales for 2018). 
Operating Expenses. The following table sets forth our operating expenses for the three month periods ending March 31, 2018 and 2017 along with the percentage changes between the corresponding periods and the line item as a percentage of total net sales.
During the three month period ending March 31, 2018, the year over year increase in operating expenses was primarily the result of the year over year change in exchange rates and a decrease in the capitalization of software development costs. The change in exchange rates had the effect of increasing our operating expenses by $6 million. Additionally, we capitalized $8 million of software development costs in the three month period ended March 31, 2018, compared to $12 million in the three month period ended March 31, 2017, which had the effect of increasing our operating expenses by $4 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in costs related to travel, marketing and outside services of $1.6 million compared to the three month period ending March 31, 2017. 
We believe that our long-term growth and success depends on developing high quality software and hardware products on a timely basis. We are focused on leveraging recent investments in research and development and in our field sales force and taking actions to help ensure that those resources are concentrated in areas and on initiatives that will contribute to future growth in our business. 
Operating Income. For the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, operating income was $28 million and $22 million, respectively, an increase of 26%. As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 9.0% and 7.4% for the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increases in operating income in absolute dollars for the three month period ended March 31, 2018, compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2017, are attributable to the factors discussed in Net Sales, Gross Profit and Operating Expenses above.
Interest Income.  For the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, interest income was $1.0 million and $0.3 million, respectively. We are seeing improving yields for high quality investment alternatives that comply with our corporate investment policy. We expect yields in these types of investments to increase moderately during the remainder of 2018. 
We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our foreign denominated net foreign currency balance sheet positions to help protect against the change in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates. We typically hedge up to 90% of our outstanding foreign denominated net receivable or payable positions and typically limit the duration of these foreign currency forward contracts to approximately 90 days. The gain or loss on these derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “Net foreign exchange gain.” Our hedging strategy decreased our foreign exchange gain by $(1.8) million and $(2.5) million in the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively. (See “Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of our derivative instruments and hedging activities).
Overview
Our principal sources of liquidity include cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flows generated from our operations.
◦Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased by $2 million. Additional analysis of the changes in our cash flows for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2017 are discussed below.
◦Accounts receivable decreased by $7 million. Days sales outstanding (“DSO”) increased to 71 days at March 31, 2018, compared to 68 days at December 31, 2017.
◦Inventory increased by $9 million to $193 million at March 31, 2018, from $185 million at December 31, 2017. Inventory turns were 1.6 and 1.7 at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The increase in inventory was primarily attributable to an increase in raw materials.
◦Accrued compensation decreased by $9 million which can be attributed to payments related to our company profit sharing plan and severance under our ongoing restructuring initiative in addition to a reduction in accrued commissions.
◦The current portion of deferred revenue increased by $7 million, primarily due to the timing of renewals of certain enterprise-wide subscription software licensing arrangements.
◦Other current liabilities increased by $9 million which was primarily related to changes in the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and an increase in our corporate taxes payable.
The following table summarizes our cash flow results for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 decreased by $7 million compared to the same period in 2017. This decrease was primarily due to additional prepayments for freight costs, insurance, and maintenance in addition to increased purchases of raw materials. 
Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 increased by $25 million compared to the same period in 2017. This was primarily attributable to a net purchase of short-term investments of $42 million compared to $13 million during the same period in 2017, driven by favorable increases in the yields offered by our short-term investments. The increase in cash outflows used in investing activities was partially offset by a decrease in capitalized software development costs of $4 million compared to the same period in 2017.
Financing Activities Cash used by financing activities increased by $2 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017. This was primarily due to a $3 million increase in cash outflows related to the increase in our quarterly dividend offset by a $1 million increase in proceeds from issuance of our common stock from our employee stock purchase plan. From time to time, our Board of Directors has authorized various programs for our repurchase of shares of our common stock depending on market conditions and other factors. Under the current program, we did not repurchase any shares during the three months ended March 31, 2018 or March 31, 2017. (See “Note 11 – Authorized shares of common and preferred stock and stock-based compensation plans” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion about our equity compensation plans and share repurchase program).
Contractual Cash Obligations. Information related to our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017 can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Contractual Obligations,” in Part II-Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC on February 22, 2018 (the “2017 Form 10-K”). At March 31, 2018, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations (including non-cancellable operating leases) from those reported in our 2017 Form 10-K.
Loan Agreement. On May 9, 2013, we entered into a Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with Wells Fargo Bank (the “Lender”). On October 29, 2015, we entered into a First Amendment to Loan Agreement (the “Amendment”) with the Lender, which amended our Loan Agreement to among other things, (i) increase the unsecured revolving line of credit from $50.0 million to $125.0 million, (ii) extend the maturity date of the line of credit from May 9, 2018 to October 29, 2020, and (iii) provide us with an option to request increases to the line of credit of up to an additional $25.0 million in the aggregate, subject to consent of the Lender and terms and conditions to be mutually agreed between us and the Lender. On April 27, 2018, we entered into a Second Amendment to Loan Agreement (the “Second Amendment”) with the Lender, which amends the Loan Agreement, as amended by the Amendment, to, among other things, (i) reduce the revolving line of credit from $125.0 million to $5.0 million, (ii) reduce the letter of credit sublimit under the line of credit from $10.0 million to $5.0 million, and (iii) require the us and our subsidiaries to comply with certain of the affirmative and negative covenants under the Loan Agreement only if loans are outstanding under the Loan Agreement or if we have not reimbursed any drawing under a letter of credit issued under the Loan Agreement within five business days following the request of the Lender. Proceeds of loans made under the Loan Agreement may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We may prepay the loans under the Loan Agreement in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. Certain of our existing and future material domestic subsidiaries are required to guaranty our obligations under the Loan Agreement. (See “Note 13 – Debt ” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on our revolving line of credit).
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  We do not have any off-balance sheet debt. At March 31, 2018, we did not have any relationships with any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we were engaged in such relationships. 
Prospective Capital Needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations as well as from the purchase of common stock through our employee stock purchase plan will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments, payment of dividends to our stockholders and repurchases of our common stock for at least the next 12 months. The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 will allow us to repatriate our foreign cash for domestic needs without additional taxation. We may also seek to pursue additional financing or to raise additional funds by seeking an increase in our unsecured revolving line of credit under our Loan Agreement or selling equity or debt to the public or in private transactions from time to time. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock.
•payment of dividends to our stockholders;
•required levels of research and development and other operating costs;
•our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; 
•acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies; 
•the overall levels of sales of our products and gross profit margins;
•the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain;
•our relationships with suppliers and customers; and 
•the level of stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. 
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
See “Note 1 – Recently issued accounting pronouncements” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
At March 31, 2018, there were 1,134,247 shares available for repurchase under our repurchase plan approved on April 21, 2010. This repurchase plan does not have an expiration date. The following table provides information as of March 31, 2018 with respect to the shares of our common stock that we repurchased during the first quarter of 2018.
