Overview 
National Instruments Corporation (the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our”) designs, manufactures and sells systems to engineers and scientists that accelerate productivity, innovation and discovery. Our software defined platform provides integrated software and modular hardware that speeds the development of automated test and automated measurement systems. We believe our long-term vision and focus on technology supports the success of our customers, employees, suppliers and stockholders. We sell to a large number of customers in a wide variety of industries. We have been profitable in every year since 1990. 
Expanding our broad customer base 
We strive to increase our already broad customer base and to grow our large order business by serving a large market on many computer platforms, through a global marketing and distribution network. We also seek new opportunities for our existing product portfolio through acquisitions of new technologies and expertise aligned with our strategic initiatives.
To maintain a high level of customer satisfaction we strive to offer innovative, modular and integrated products through a global sales and support network. We strive to maintain a high degree of backwards compatibility across different platforms to preserve the customer’s investment in our products. In this time of intense global competition, we believe that it is crucial that we continue to offer products with high quality and reliability, and that our products provide cost-effective solutions for our customers. 
Leveraging external and internal technology 
Our product strategy is to provide superior products by leveraging generally available technology, supporting open architectures on multiple platforms and leveraging our core technologies across multiple products.
Leveraging a worldwide sales, distribution and manufacturing network 
Current business outlook 
Many of the industries we serve have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. In assessing our business, we consider the trends in the Global Purchasing Managers’ Index (“PMI”), global industrial production as well as industry reports on the specific vertical industries that we target. Historically, our business cycles have generally followed the expansion and contraction cycles in the global industrial economy as measured by the Global PMI. For the three months ended June 30, 2018, the average of the Global PMI was 53.2 and the average of the new order element of the Global PMI was 53.4. Although these readings are indicative of expansion in the industrial sector we are unable to predict whether the industrial economy, as measured by the PMI, will remain above the neutral reading of 50, strengthen or contract during the remainder of 2018.
Since the first quarter of 2017, we have been taking steps to reduce our overall employee headcount in an effort to reduce job duplication, shift and centralize activities, improve efficiencies, and rebalance our resources on higher return activities. In connection with these activities, we expect to incur an additional $3 million to $5 million in severance and other restructuring-related charges, net of tax, by the end of 2018, most of which we expect to incur in the third quarter of 2018. 
We have hedging programs in place to help mitigate the risks associated with foreign currency risks. However, there can be no assurance the hedges will offset more than a portion of the financial impact resulting from movements in the foreign currency markets in which we do business. (See “Note 5 – Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to consolidated financial statements for additional details concerning hedging programs.)
Results of Operations 
 Figures may not sum due to rounding.
Results of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017
Net Sales. The following table sets forth our net sales for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 along with the changes between the corresponding periods.
Figures may not sum due to rounding.
The year over year increase in software maintenance for each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was driven by increased adoption of our software platform and changes to the renewal pricing of annual software maintenance for many of our products. Orders with a value greater than $20,000 increased by 16% year over year during the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the year over year increase of 10% in the three months ended June 30, 2017. During the six months ended
June 30, 2018 and 2017, orders with a value greater than $20,000 increased by 11% year over year. A significant factor in the continued expansion of these orders in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the comparable periods in 2017 was strong demand for data acquisition hardware and software products, including enterprise-wide licensing agreements, indicating broader adoption of our platform. 
The following table sets forth our net sales by geographic region for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 along with the changes between the corresponding periods and the region’s percentage of total net sales.
 Figures may not sum due to rounding.
To help protect against changes in U.S. dollar equivalent value caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from international sales, we maintain a foreign currency cash flow hedging program. We hedge portions of our forecasted net sales denominated in foreign currencies with average rate forward contracts. During the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of decreasing our net sales by $1.3 million and increasing our net sales by $0.7 million, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of decreasing our net sales by $3.9 million and increasing our net sales by $2.7 million, respectively. (See “Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our cash flow hedging program and its related impact on our net sales for 2018 and 2017). 
Operating Expenses. The following table sets forth our operating expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 along with the percentage changes between the corresponding periods and the line item as a percentage of total net sales.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, operating expenses were up 7% year over year, which was primarily the result of a $10 million increase in research and development expenses related to a decrease in software development costs eligible for capitalization and a $5.4 million increase due to the year over year change in exchange rates. In the three months ended June 30, 2018, we capitalized $3.9 million of software development costs compared to $13.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017. In the second quarter of 2018, we began moving toward more frequent releases for many of our software products. Specifically, for many of our software development projects we started applying agile development methodologies which are characterized by a more dynamic development process with more frequent and iterative revisions to a product release's features and functions as the software is being developed. Due to the shorter development cycle and focus on rapid production associated with agile development, we expect that for a significant majority of our software development projects the costs incurred subsequent to the achievement of technological feasibility will be immaterial in future periods and we expect to record significantly less capitalized software development costs than under our historical software development approaches. Consequently, a larger portion of our software development expenditures will be recognized as operating expenses in the future. We also expect amortization of previously capitalized software development costs to steadily decline as previously capitalized software development costs become fully amortized over the next four years.
We believe that our long-term growth and success depends on developing high quality software and hardware products on a timely basis. We are focused on leveraging recent investments in research and development and in our field sales force and taking actions to help ensure that those resources are concentrated in areas and on initiatives that will contribute to future growth in our business. 
Operating Income. For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, operating income was $37 million and $29 million, respectively, an increase of 29%. As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 10.8% and 9.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, operating income was $65 million and $51 million, respectively, an increase of 28%. As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 10.0% and 8.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increases in operating income in absolute dollars for the three months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, and for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, are attributable to the factors discussed in Net Sales, Gross Profit and Operating Expenses above.
Interest Income.  For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, interest income was $1.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, interest income was $2.3 million and $0.9 million, respectively. We continue to see improving yields for high quality investment alternatives that comply with our corporate investment policy. We expect yields in these types of investments to increase moderately during the remainder of 2018.
We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our foreign denominated net foreign currency balance sheet positions to help protect against the change in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates. We typically hedge up to 90% of our outstanding foreign denominated net receivable or payable positions and typically limit the duration of these foreign currency forward contracts to approximately 90 days. The gain or loss on these derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “Net foreign exchange gain (loss).” Our hedging strategy decreased our foreign exchange loss by $1.6 million and decreased our foreign exchange gain by $0.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively. Our hedging strategy increased our foreign exchange loss by $0.2 million and decreased our foreign exchange gain by $3.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. (See “Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of our derivative instruments and hedging activities).
Overview
Our principal sources of liquidity include cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flows generated from our operations.
◦Inventory increased by $9 million to $193 million at June 30, 2018, from $185 million at December 31, 2017. Inventory turns were 1.7 at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The increase in inventory was primarily attributable to an increase in raw materials.
◦The current portion of deferred revenue increased by $5 million, primarily due to a $16 million increase in our current deferred revenue during the first six months of 2018, primarily related to increased software billings, and the timing of renewals of certain enterprise-wide software licensing agreements. This increase was partially offset by a $9 million decrease due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on January 1, 2018 and a $2 million decrease related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. (See “Note 1 – Basis of presentation” and "Note 2 - Revenue" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on our adoption of the new revenue standard).
◦Other current liabilities decreased by $9 million which was primarily related to changes in the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The following table summarizes our cash flow results for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $14 million compared to the same period in 2017. This increase was due to a $12 million increase in net income and a $2 million increase in cash provided by operating assets and liabilities. 
Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $51 million compared to the same period in 2017. This was primarily attributable to a net purchase of short-term investments of $90 million compared to a net purchase of short-term investments of $32 million during the same period in 2017, driven by favorable increases in the yields offered by our short-term investments. Investing cash outflows related to capitalized software development decreased by $13 million compared to the same period in 2017 due to a decrease in development costs eligible for capitalization related to a recent shift for several of our software projects to a more iterative software development cycle. Due to this change in how we develop these software products, we expect the portion of software development expenditures that will be recognized as research and development expenses when incurred, and consequently, classified as operating cash flows, to increase in future periods. 
Financing Activities Cash used by financing activities increased by $5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017. This was primarily due to a $6 million increase in cash outflows related to the increase in our quarterly dividend offset by a $1 million increase in proceeds from issuance of our common stock from our employee stock purchase plan. 
Contractual Cash Obligations.  Information related to our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017 can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Contractual Obligations,” in Part II-Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC on February 22, 2018 (the “2017 Form 10-K”). At June 30, 2018, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations (including non-cancellable operating leases) from those reported in our 2017 Form 10-K.
Loan Agreement. On May 9, 2013, we entered into a Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with Wells Fargo Bank (the “Lender”). On October 29, 2015, we entered into a First Amendment to Loan Agreement (the “Amendment”) with the Lender, which amended our Loan Agreement to among other things, (i) increase the unsecured revolving line of credit from $50.0 million to $125.0 million, (ii) extend the maturity date of the line of credit from May 9, 2018 to October 29, 2020, and (iii) provide us with an option to request increases to the line of credit of up to an additional $25.0 million in the aggregate, subject to consent of the Lender and terms and conditions to be mutually agreed between us and the Lender. On April 27, 2018, we entered into a Second Amendment to Loan Agreement (the "Second Amendment") which amended the Loan Agreement, as amended by the Amendment to, among other things, (i) reduce the revolving line of credit from $125.0 million to $5.0 million, (ii) reduce the letter of credit sublimit under the line of credit from $10.0 million to $5.0 million , and (iii) require the us and our subsidiaries to comply with certain of the affirmative and negative covenants under the Loan Agreement only if loans are outstanding under the Loan Agreement or if we have not reimbursed any drawing under a letter of credit issued under the Loan Agreement within five business days following the request of the Lender. Proceeds of loans made under the Loan Agreement may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We may prepay the loans under the Loan Agreement in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. Certain of our existing and future material domestic subsidiaries are required to guaranty our obligations under the Loan Agreement. (See “Note 13 – Debt ” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on our revolving line of credit).
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  We do not have any off-balance sheet debt. At June 30, 2018, we did not have any relationships with any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we were engaged in such relationships. 
Prospective Capital Needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations as well as from the purchase of common stock through our employee stock purchase plan will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments, payment of dividends to our stockholders and repurchases of our common stock for at least the next 12 months. The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in December 2017 will allow us to repatriate our foreign cash for domestic needs without additional taxation. We may also seek to pursue additional financing or to raise additional funds by seeking an increase in our unsecured revolving line of credit under our Loan Agreement or selling equity or debt to the public or in private transactions from time to time. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock.
•payment of dividends to our stockholders;
•required levels of research and development and other operating costs;
•our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; 
•acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies; 
•the overall levels of sales of our products and gross profit margins;
•the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain;
•the inability of certain of our customers who depend on credit to have access to their traditional sources of credit to finance the purchase of products from us, which may lead them to reduce their level of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us;
•our relationships with suppliers and customers; and 
•the level of stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. 
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
See “Note 1 – Recently issued accounting pronouncements” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
At June 30, 2018, there were 1,134,247 shares available for repurchase under our repurchase plan approved on April 21, 2010. This repurchase plan does not have an expiration date. The following table provides information as of June 30, 2018 with respect to the shares of our common stock that we repurchased during the second quarter of 2018.
