Overview 
For more than 40 years, National Instruments Corporation (the "Company", "we", "us" or "our") has enabled engineers and scientists around the world to accelerate productivity, innovation and discovery. Our software-centric platform provides an advanced approach through integration of software and modular hardware to create automated test and automated measurement systems. We believe our long-term track record of innovation and our differentiated platform help support the success of our customers, employees, suppliers and stockholders. We have been profitable in every year since 1990. We sell to a large number of customers in a wide variety of industries. 
Expanding our broad customer base 
We strive to increase our already broad customer base and to grow our large order business by serving a large market on many computer platforms, through a global marketing and distribution network. We also seek to acquire new technologies and expertise from time to time to open new opportunities for our existing product portfolio. 
To maintain a high level of customer satisfaction we strive to offer innovative, modular and integrated products through a global sales and support network. We strive to maintain a high degree of backwards compatibility across different platforms to preserve the customer’s investment in our products. In this time of intense global competition, we believe that it is crucial that we continue to offer products with high quality and reliability, and that our products provide cost-effective solutions for our customers. 
Leveraging external and internal technology 
Our product strategy is to provide superior products by leveraging generally available technology, supporting open architectures on multiple platforms and leveraging our core technologies across multiple products.
Leveraging a worldwide sales, distribution and manufacturing network 
Current business outlook 
Many of the industries we serve have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. In assessing our business, we consider the trends in the Global Purchasing Managers’ Index (“PMI”), global industrial production as well as industry reports on the specific vertical industries that we target. Historically, our business cycles have generally followed the expansion and contraction cycles in the global industrial economy as measured by the Global PMI. In the three month period ended March 31, 2019, the average of the Global PMI was 50.7 which is indicative of expansion in the industrial sector, and the average of the new order element of the Global PMI was 50.0 which is a neutral reading. We are unable to predict whether the industrial economy, as measured by the PMI, will remain at or above the neutral reading of 50, strengthen or contract during the remainder of 2019.
Since the first quarter of 2017 we have been taking steps to reduce our overall employee headcount in an effort to shift and centralize activities, improve efficiencies, and rebalance our resources on higher return activities. We incurred $2 million in severance and other restructuring-related charges, net of tax during the three months ended March 31, 2019. The timing and scope of any future headcount reductions will vary.
We have hedging programs in place to help mitigate the risks associated with foreign currency risks. However, there can be no assurance such hedges will offset more than a portion of the financial impact resulting from movements in the foreign currency markets in which we do business. (See Note 5 – Derivative instruments and hedging activities of Notes to consolidated financial statements for additional details concerning hedging programs.)
 Figures may not sum due to rounding.
Results of Operations for the three month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 
Net Sales. The following table sets forth our net sales for the three month periods ending March 31, 2019 and 2018 along with the changes between the corresponding periods.
Figures may not sum due to rounding.
Orders with a value greater than $20,000, increased by 6% year over year during the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the year over year increase of 7% in the three month period ended March 31, 2018. A significant factor in the continued expansion of our large orders in the three months ended March 31, 2019 was strong demand for our system-level offerings, particularly in applications related to semiconductor validation and production test. The increase in software maintenance sales was primarily related to recent growth in our software offerings, and consequently, billings for annual renewals of software maintenance programs during the trailing 12 months.
The following table sets forth our net sales by geographic region for the three month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 along with the changes between the corresponding periods and the region’s percentage of total net sales.
Figures may not sum due to rounding.
 Figures may not sum due to rounding.
To help protect against changes in U.S. dollar equivalent value caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from international sales, we have instituted a foreign currency cash flow hedging program. We hedge portions of our forecasted net sales denominated in foreign currencies with average rate forward contracts. During the three month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, these hedges had the effect of increasing our net sales by $1.7 million and decreasing our net sales by $2.6 million, respectively. (See Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities of Notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding our cash flow hedging program and its related impact on our net sales for 2019 and 2018). 
Operating Expenses. The following table sets forth our operating expenses for the three month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 along with the percentage changes between the corresponding periods and the line item as a percentage of total net sales.
•a $4 million decrease related to the year over year impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates
•a $1 million increase in miscellaneous costs related to outside services, trade shows, and special events
We capitalized $2 million of software development costs in the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to $8 million in the three month period ended March 31, 2018, which had the effect of increasing our operating expenses by $6 million. We believe that our long-term growth and success depends on developing high quality software and hardware products on a timely basis. We are focused on leveraging recent investments in research and development and in our field sales force and taking actions to help ensure that those resources are concentrated in areas and on initiatives that will contribute to future growth in our business. 
Operating Income. For the three month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, operating income was $23 million and $28 million, respectively, a decrease of 17%. As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 7.5% and 9.0% for the three month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in operating income in absolute dollars for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2018, is attributable to the factors discussed in Net Sales, Gross Profit and Operating Expenses above.
Interest Income.  For the three month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, interest income was $2.2 million and $1.0 million, respectively. We are seeing improving yields for high quality investment alternatives that comply with our corporate investment policy. We expect yields in these types of investments to remain near current levels during the remainder of 2019. 
We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our foreign denominated net foreign currency balance sheet positions to help protect against the change in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates. We typically hedge up to 90% of our outstanding foreign denominated net receivable or payable positions and typically limit the duration of these foreign currency forward contracts to approximately 90 days. The gain or loss on these derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “Net foreign exchange gain.” Our hedging strategy decreased our foreign exchange gain by $(0.2) million and $(1.8) million in the three month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (See Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of our derivative instruments and hedging activities).
Overview
Our principal sources of liquidity include cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flows generated from our operations
◦Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments decreased by $51 million. Additional analysis of the changes in our cash flows for the three month period ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2018 are discussed below.
◦Accounts receivable decreased by $28 million. Days sales outstanding increased to 66 days at March 31, 2019, compared to 65 days at December 31, 2018. The decrease in accounts receivable is primarily related to seasonal variations in our quarterly net sales. 
◦Inventory increased by $11 million to $205 million at March 31, 2019, from $194 million at December 31, 2018. Inventory turns were 1.6 and 1.8 at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The increase in inventory was primarily attributable to an increase in raw materials and finished goods, related to lower sales volume than anticipated during the first quarter of 2019. 
◦Accrued compensation decreased by $11 million which can be attributed to payments related to our company profit sharing and bonus plans.
◦The current portion of deferred revenue increased by $3 million, which was primarily related to the timing of annual renewals of our enterprise licensing agreements. 
◦Operating lease liabilities, current, increased by $16 million which was entirely related to the adoption of the new leasing standard on January 1, 2019, as discussed in Note 1 - Basis of presentation and Note 8 - Leases. 
The following table summarizes our cash flow results for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2019 increased by $2 million compared to the same period in 2018. 
Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2019 decreased by $59 million compared to the same period in 2018. This was primarily attributable to a net sale of short-term investments of $21 million compared to a net purchase of short-term investments of $42 million during the same period in 2018, and a $10 million purchase of an interest in an equity-method investee. The net sale of short-term investments was primarily to fund repurchases of our common stock under our share repurchase program. The increase in cash outflows used in investing activities was partially offset by a decrease in capitalized software development costs of $5 million compared to the same period in 2018.
Financing Activities Cash used by financing activities increased by $49 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. This was primarily related to an increase of $46 million in cash outflows used to repurchase 1,035,098 shares of our common stock and a $3 million increase in cash outflows related to the increase in our quarterly dividend offset by a $1 million increase in proceeds from issuance of our common stock from our employee stock purchase plan. (See Note 11 – Authorized shares of common and preferred stock and stock-based compensation plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion about our equity compensation plans and share repurchase program).
Contractual Cash Obligations. Information related to our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Contractual Obligations,” in Part II-Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC on February 21, 2019 (the “2018 Form 10-K”). At March 31, 2019, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations from those reported in our 2018 Form 10-K. See Note 8 - Leases for additional information regarding our non-cancellable operating lease obligations as of March 31, 2019. 
Loan Agreement. On May 9, 2013, we entered into the Loan Agreement with the Lender. On October 29, 2015, we entered into the Amendment with the Lender, which amended our Loan Agreement to among other things, (i) increase the unsecured revolving line of credit from $50.0 million to $125.0 million, (ii) extend the maturity date of the line of credit from May 9, 2018 to October 29, 2020, and (iii) provide us with an option to request increases to the line of credit of up to an additional $25.0 million in the aggregate, subject to consent of the Lender and terms and conditions to be mutually agreed between us and the Lender. On April 27, 2018, we entered into the Second Amendment with the Lender, which amends the Loan Agreement, as amended by the Amendment, to, among other things, (i) reduce the revolving line of credit from $125.0 million to $5.0 million, (ii) reduce the letter of credit sublimit under the line of credit from $10.0 million to $5.0 million, and (iii) require us and our subsidiaries to comply with certain of the affirmative and negative covenants under the Loan Agreement only if loans are outstanding under the Loan Agreement or if we have not reimbursed any drawing under a letter of credit issued under the Loan Agreement within five business days following the request of the Lender. Proceeds of loans made under the Loan Agreement may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We may prepay the loans under the Loan Agreement in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. Certain of our existing and future material domestic subsidiaries are required to guaranty our obligations under the Loan Agreement. (See Note 13 – Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on our revolving line of credit).
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  We do not have any off-balance sheet debt. At March 31, 2019, we did not have any relationships with any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we were engaged in such relationships. 
Prospective Capital Needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations as well as from the purchase of common stock through our employee stock purchase plan will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments, payment of dividends to our stockholders and repurchases of our common stock for at least the next 12 months. The enactment of the Act allow us to repatriate our foreign cash for domestic needs without additional taxation. We may also seek to pursue additional financing or to raise additional funds by seeking an increase in our unsecured revolving line of credit under our Loan Agreement or selling equity or debt to the public or in private transactions from time to time. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock.
•payment of dividends to our stockholders;
•required levels of research and development and other operating costs;
•our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; 
•acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies; 
•the overall levels of sales of our products and gross profit margins;
•the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain;
•our relationships with suppliers and customers; and 
•the level of stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. 
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
See Note 1 – Basis of presentation in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
At March 31, 2019, there were 2,964,902 shares available for repurchase under our repurchase plan approved on April 21, 2010. This repurchase plan does not have an expiration date. The following table provides information as of March 31, 2019 with respect to the shares of our common stock that we repurchased during the first quarter of 2019.
EVP, Chief Financial Officer
