Overview 
For more than 40 years, National Instruments Corporation (the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our”) has enabled engineers and scientists around the world to accelerate productivity, innovation and discovery. Our software-centric platform provides an advanced approach through integration of software and modular hardware to create automated test and automated measurement systems. We believe our long-term track record of innovation and our differentiated platform help support the success of our customers, employees, suppliers and stockholders. We have been profitable in every year since 1990. We sell to a large number of customers in a wide variety of industries. 
Expanding our broad customer base 
We strive to increase our already broad customer base and to grow our large order business by serving a large market on many computer platforms, through a global marketing and distribution network. We also seek to acquire new technologies and expertise from time to time to open new opportunities for our existing product portfolio. 
To maintain a high level of customer satisfaction we strive to offer innovative, modular and integrated products through a global sales and support network. We strive to maintain a high degree of backwards compatibility across different platforms to preserve the customer’s investment in our products. In this time of intense global competition, we believe that it is crucial that we continue to offer products with high quality and reliability, and that our products provide cost-effective solutions for our customers. 
Leveraging external and internal technology 
Our product strategy is to provide superior products by leveraging generally available technology, supporting open architectures on multiple platforms and leveraging our core technologies across multiple products.
Leveraging a worldwide sales, distribution and manufacturing network 
Current business outlook 
Many of the industries we serve have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. In assessing our business, we consider the trends in the Global Purchasing Managers’ Index (“PMI”), global industrial production as well as industry reports on the specific vertical industries that we target. Historically, our business cycles have generally followed the expansion and contraction cycles in the global industrial economy as measured by the Global PMI. For the three months ended June 30, 2019, the average of the Global PMI was 49.9 and the average of the new order element of the Global PMI was 49.5. A Global PMI of 50.0 is a neutral rating, a number greater than 50.0 is indicative of expansion and a number less than 50.0 is indicative of contraction. 
We have hedging programs in place to help mitigate the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. However, there can be no assurance the hedges will offset more than a portion of the financial impact resulting from movements in the foreign currency markets in which we do business. (See Note 5 – Derivative instruments and hedging activities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details concerning our hedging programs.)
Results of Operations 
 Figures may not sum due to rounding.
Results of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018
Net Sales. The following table sets forth our net sales for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 along with the changes between the corresponding periods.
Figures may not sum due to rounding.
Orders with a value greater than $20,000 decreased by 2% year over year during the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year over year increase of 16% in the three months ended June 30, 2018. During the six months ended June 30, 2019, orders with a value greater than $20,000 increased by 1% year over year compared to the year over year increase of 11% in the six months ended June 30, 2018. 
The following table sets forth our net sales by geographic region for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 along with the changes between the corresponding periods and the region’s percentage of total net sales.
Figures may not sum due to rounding.
 Figures may not sum due to rounding.
To help protect against changes in U.S. dollar equivalent value caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from international sales, we maintain a foreign currency cash flow hedging program. We hedge portions of our forecasted net sales denominated in foreign currencies with average rate forward contracts. During the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, these hedges had the effect of increasing our net sales by $2.7 million and decreasing our net sales by $1.3 million, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, these hedges had the effect of increasing our net sales by $4.4 million and decreasing our net sales by $3.9 million, respectively. (See Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our cash flow hedging program and its related impact on our net sales for 2019 and 2018). 
Operating Expenses. The following table sets forth our operating expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 along with the percentage changes between the corresponding periods and the line item as a percentage of total net sales.
•$5 million decrease related to the year over year impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates;
•$4 million increase due to additional stock-based compensation expense, primarily attributable to comparatively 
higher share prices on the grant date of unvested RSU awards;
•$3 million decrease in marketing and outside service costs;
development costs eligible for capitalization, as described in more detail below.
•$9 million decrease related to the year over year impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates;
•$7 million increase due to additional stock-based compensation expense, primarily attributable to
comparatively higher share prices on the grant date of unvested RSU awards;
software development costs eligible for capitalization, as described in more detail below;
•$4 million decrease in personnel costs, primarily attributable to a decrease in variable compensation costs;
•$1 million decrease in marketing and outside service costs.
We believe that our long-term growth and success depends on developing high quality software and hardware products on a timely basis. We are focused on leveraging recent investments in research and development and in our field sales force and taking actions to help ensure that those resources are concentrated in areas and on initiatives that will contribute to future growth in our business. 
Operating Income. For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, operating income was $32 million and $37 million, respectively, a decrease of 13%. As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 9.7% and 10.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, operating income was $56 million and $65 million, respectively, a decrease of 14%. As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 8.6% and 10.0% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decreases in operating income in absolute dollars for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018, and for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2018, are attributable to the factors discussed in Net Sales, Gross Profit and Operating Expenses above.
Interest Income.  For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, interest income was $2.0 million and $1.3 million, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, interest income was $4.3 million and $2.3 million, respectively. Recently we have seen moderate declines to the yields for high quality investment alternatives that comply with our corporate investment policy which could negatively impact the amount of interest income from our investment portfolio for the remainder of 2019. 
Net Foreign Exchange Loss.  For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, net foreign exchange loss was $(1.6) million and $(2.1) million, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, net foreign exchange loss was $(1.2) million and $(1.1) million, respectively. These results are attributable to movements in the foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in subsidiaries for which our functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. During the first half of 2019, we saw continued volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and many of the currency markets where we have exposure. In the past, we have noted that volatility in the foreign currency exchange markets in which we do business has had a significant impact on the revaluation of our foreign currency denominated firm commitments, on our ability to forecast our U.S. dollar equivalent net sales and expenses and on the effectiveness of our hedging programs. We cannot predict to what degree foreign currency markets will fluctuate in the future. In the past, these dynamics have also adversely affected our net sales growth in international markets and may pose similar challenges in the future. We recognize the local currency as the functional currency in virtually all of our international subsidiaries. See “Results of Operations - Net Sales” above for additional discussion on the impact of foreign exchange rates on our net sales of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019.
We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our foreign denominated net foreign currency balance sheet positions to help protect against the change in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates. We typically hedge up to 90% of our outstanding foreign denominated net receivable or payable positions and typically limit the duration of these foreign currency forward contracts to approximately 90 days. The gain or loss on these derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “Net foreign exchange loss.” Our hedging strategy increased our foreign exchange loss by $(0.1) million and decreased our foreign exchange loss by $1.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively. Our hedging strategy increased our foreign exchange loss by $(0.4) million and increased our foreign exchange loss by $(0.2) million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (See Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of our derivative instruments and hedging activities).
Overview
Our principal sources of liquidity include cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flows generated from our operations.
◦Accrued compensation decreased by $6 million which can be attributed to a decrease in payments expected under our company profit sharing and bonus plans.
◦Accounts payable increased by $7 million, primarily due to the timing of payments for services. 
◦Operating lease liabilities, current. increased by $16 million which was entirely related to the adoption of the new leasing standard on January 1, 2019, as discussed in Note 1 - Basis of presentation and Note 8 - Leases.
The following table summarizes our cash flow results for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $10 million compared to the same period in 2018. This decrease was primarily due to a $15 million decrease in operating assets and liabilities, which was partially offset due to a $7 million increase in stock-based compensation. 
Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $109 million compared to the same period in 2018. This was primarily attributable to a net sale of short-term investments of $25 million compared to a net purchase of short-term investments of $90 million during the same period in 2018. Investing cash outflows related to capitalized software development decreased by $7 million compared to the same period in 2018 due to a decrease in development costs eligible for capitalization related to a recent shift for several of our software projects to a more iterative software development cycle. Due to this change in how we develop these software products, we expect the portion of software development expenditures that will be recognized as research and development expenses when incurred, and consequently, classified as operating cash flows, to increase in future periods. 
Financing Activities Cash used by financing activities increased by $97 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. This was primarily related to an increase of $92 million in cash outflows used to repurchase 2,149,598 shares of our common stock and a $5 million increase in cash outflows related to the increase in our quarterly dividend offset by a $1 million increase in proceeds from issuance of our common stock under our employee stock purchase plan.
Contractual Cash Obligations.  Information related to our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Contractual Obligations,” in Part II-Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC on February 21, 2019 (the “2018 Form 10-K”). At June 30, 2019, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations from those reported in our 2018 Form 10-K. See Note 8 - Leases for additional information regarding our non-cancellable operating lease obligations as of June 30, 2019.
Loan Agreement. As amended through April 27, 2018, the Loan Agreement provides for (i) a revolving line of credit of $5.0 million, (ii) a letter of credit sublimit under the line of credit of $5.0 million, and (iii) requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with certain of the affirmative and negative covenants under the Loan Agreement only if loans are outstanding under the Loan Agreement or if we have not reimbursed any drawing under a letter of credit issued under the Loan Agreement within five business days following the request of the Lender. Proceeds of loans made under the Loan Agreement may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We may prepay the loans under the Loan Agreement in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. Certain of our existing and future material domestic subsidiaries are required to guaranty our obligations under the Loan Agreement. (See Note 13 – Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on our revolving line of credit).
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  We do not have any off-balance sheet debt. At June 30, 2019, we did not have any relationships with any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we were engaged in such relationships. 
Prospective Capital Needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations as well as from the purchase of common stock through our employee stock purchase plan, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments, payment of dividends to our stockholders and repurchases of our common stock for at least the next 12 months. On June 25, 2019, we entered into an agreement to sell our 136,000 square foot office building and property located in Austin, TX. The expected proceeds from the sale are $33.6 million. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2019. Additionally, the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act allows us to repatriate our foreign cash for domestic needs without additional taxation. We may also seek to pursue additional financing or to raise additional funds by seeking an increase in our unsecured revolving line of credit under our Loan Agreement or selling equity or debt to the public or in private transactions from time to time. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock.
•payment of dividends to our stockholders;
•required levels of research and development and other operating costs;
•our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; 
•acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies; 
•the overall levels of sales of our products and gross profit margins;
•the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain;
•our relationships with suppliers and customers; and 
•the level of stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. 
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
See Note 1 – Basis of presentation in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The following table provides information as of June 30, 2019 with respect to the shares of our common stock that we repurchased during the second quarter of 2019.
