Overview 
National Instruments Corporation (the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our”) designs, manufactures and sells systems to engineers and scientists that accelerate productivity, innovation and discovery. Our software defined platform provides integrated software and modular hardware that speeds the development of automated test and automated measurement systems. We believe our long-term vision and focus on technology supports the success of our customers, employees, suppliers and stockholders. We sell to a large number of customers in a wide variety of industries. We have been profitable in every year since 1990. 
Expanding our broad customer base 
We strive to increase our already broad customer base and to grow our large order business by serving a large market on many computer platforms, through a global marketing and distribution network. We also seek new opportunities for our existing product portfolio through acquisitions of new technologies and expertise aligned with our strategic initiatives.
To maintain a high level of customer satisfaction we strive to offer innovative, modular and integrated products through a global sales and support network. We strive to maintain a high degree of backwards compatibility across different platforms to preserve the customer’s investment in our products. In this time of intense global competition, we believe that it is crucial that we continue to offer products with high quality and reliability, and that our products provide cost-effective solutions for our customers. 
Leveraging external and internal technology 
Our product strategy is to provide superior products by leveraging generally available technology, supporting open architectures on multiple platforms and leveraging our core technologies across multiple products.
Leveraging a worldwide sales, distribution and manufacturing network 
Current business outlook 
Many of the industries we serve have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. In assessing our business, we consider the trends in the Global Purchasing Managers’ Index (“PMI”), global industrial production as well as industry reports on the specific vertical industries that we target. Historically, our business cycles have generally followed the expansion and contraction cycles in the global industrial economy as measured by the Global PMI. For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the average of the Global PMI was 52.5 and the average of the new order element of the Global PMI was 52.4. Although these readings are indicative of expansion in the industrial sector we are unable to predict whether the industrial economy, as measured by the PMI, will remain above the neutral reading of 50, strengthen or contract during the remainder of 2018.
Since the first quarter of 2017, we have been taking steps to reduce our overall employee headcount in an effort to reduce job duplication, shift and centralize activities, improve efficiencies, and rebalance our resources on higher return activities. In connection with these activities, we expect to incur an additional $1 million to $2 million in severance and other restructuring-related charges, net of tax, by the end of 2018.
We have hedging programs in place to help mitigate the risks associated with foreign currency risks. However, there can be no assurance the hedges will offset more than a portion of the financial impact resulting from movements in the foreign currency markets in which we do business. (See “Note 5 – Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to consolidated financial statements for additional details concerning our hedging programs.)
Results of Operations 
 Figures may not sum due to rounding.
Results of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017
Net Sales. The following table sets forth our net sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 along with the changes between the corresponding periods.
Figures may not sum due to rounding.
Orders with a value greater than $20,000 increased by 21% year over year during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the year over year increase of 7% in the three months ended September 30, 2017. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, orders with a value greater than $20,000 increased by 16% year over year compared to the year over year increase of 10% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017. A significant factor in the continued expansion of these orders in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the comparable periods in 2017 was strong demand for our data acquisition and control hardware, and software licenses including enterprise-wide licensing agreements, indicating broader adoption of our platform. The year over year increase in software maintenance for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was driven by increased adoption of our software platform and an increase in billings for annual software maintenance renewals for many of our products. 
The following table sets forth our net sales by geographic region for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 along with the changes between the corresponding periods and the region’s percentage of total net sales.
 Figures may not sum due to rounding.
To help protect against changes in U.S. dollar equivalent value caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from international sales, we maintain a foreign currency cash flow hedging program. We hedge portions of our forecasted net sales denominated in foreign currencies with average rate forward contracts. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of increasing our net sales by $1.4 million and decreasing our net sales by $(1.4) million, respectively. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of decreasing our net sales by $(2.5) million and increasing our net sales by $1.3 million, respectively. (See “Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our cash flow hedging program and its related impact on our net sales for 2018 and 2017). 
Operating Expenses. The following table sets forth our operating expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 along with the percentage changes between the corresponding periods and the line item as a percentage of total net sales.
We believe that our long-term growth and success depends on developing high quality software and hardware products on a timely basis. We are focused on leveraging recent investments in research and development and in our field sales force and taking actions to help ensure that those resources are concentrated in areas and on initiatives that will contribute to future growth in our business. 
Operating Income. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, operating income was $46 million and $38 million, respectively, an increase of 23%. As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 13.3% and 11.7% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, operating income was $111 million and $88 million, respectively, an increase of 26%. As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 11.1% and 9.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increases in operating income in absolute dollars for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2017, are attributable to the factors discussed in Net Sales, Gross Profit and Operating Expenses above.
Interest Income.  For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, interest income was $1.5 million and $0.7 million, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, interest income was $3.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively. We continue to see improving yields for high quality investment alternatives that comply with our corporate investment policy. We expect yields in these types of investments to increase moderately during the remainder of 2018.
We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our foreign denominated net foreign currency balance sheet positions to help protect against the change in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates. We typically hedge up to 90% of our outstanding foreign denominated net receivable or payable positions and typically limit the duration of these foreign currency forward contracts to approximately 90 days. The gain or loss on these derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “Net foreign exchange gain (loss).” Our hedging strategy decreased our foreign exchange loss by $0.9 million and decreased our foreign exchange gain by $0.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. Our hedging strategy decreased our foreign exchange loss by $0.7 million and decreased our foreign exchange gain by $4.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. (See “Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of our derivative instruments and hedging activities).
Overview
Our principal sources of liquidity include cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flows generated from our operations.
◦Prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $14 million which which was primarily related to an increase in prepaid freight costs in addition to the timing of insurance and maintenance renewals and an increase in the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
◦Accrued compensation increased to $52 million which can be attributed to a $7 million increase related to a potential payment under our company profit sharing plan and a $2 million increase for accrued variable compensation costs related to our sales growth.
◦The current portion of deferred revenue remained relatively flat, primarily due to a $12 million increase in our current deferred revenue during the first nine months of 2018, related to increased software billings, and the timing of renewals of certain enterprise-wide software licensing agreements. This increase was mostly offset by a $9 million decrease due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on January 1, 2018 and a $3 million decrease related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. (See “Note 1 – Basis of presentation” and "Note 2 - Revenue" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on our adoption of the new revenue standard).
◦Other current liabilities decreased by $6 million which was primarily related to changes in the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The following table summarizes our cash flow results for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $40 million compared to the same period in 2017. This increase was due to a $22 million increase in net income and a $18 million increase in cash provided by operating assets and liabilities. 
Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $18 million compared to the same period in 2017. This was primarily attributable to a net purchase of short-term investments of $50 million compared to a net purchase of short-term investments of $17 million during the same period in 2017, driven by favorable increases in the yields offered by our short-term investments. Investing cash outflows related to capitalized software development decreased by $21 million compared to the same period in 2017 due to a decrease in development costs eligible for capitalization related to a recent shift for several of our software projects to a more iterative software development cycle. Due to this change in how we develop these software products, we expect the portion of software development expenditures that will be recognized as research and development expenses when incurred, and consequently, classified as operating cash flows, to increase in future periods. 
Financing Activities Cash used by financing activities decreased by $3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017. This was primarily due to a $9 million increase in cash outflows related to the increase in our quarterly dividend offset by a $2 million increase in proceeds from issuance of our common stock from our employee stock purchase plan and the $10 million decrease related to principal payments on our revolving line of credit. 
Contractual Cash Obligations.  Information related to our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017 can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Contractual Obligations,” in Part II-Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC on February 22, 2018 (the “2017 Form 10-K”). At September 30, 2018, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations (including non-cancellable operating leases) from those reported in our 2017 Form 10-K.
Loan Agreement. On May 9, 2013, we entered into a Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with Wells Fargo Bank (the “Lender”). On October 29, 2015, we entered into a First Amendment to Loan Agreement (the “Amendment”) with the Lender, which amended our Loan Agreement to among other things, (i) increase the unsecured revolving line of credit from $50.0 million to $125.0 million, (ii) extend the maturity date of the line of credit from May 9, 2018 to October 29, 2020, and (iii) provide us with an option to request increases to the line of credit of up to an additional $25.0 million in the aggregate, subject to consent of the Lender and terms and conditions to be mutually agreed between us and the Lender. On April 27, 2018, we entered into a Second Amendment to Loan Agreement (the "Second Amendment") which amended the Loan Agreement, as amended by the Amendment to, among other things, (i) reduce the revolving line of credit from $125.0 million to $5.0 million, (ii) reduce the letter of credit sublimit under the line of credit from $10.0 million to $5.0 million , and (iii) require us and our subsidiaries to comply with certain of the affirmative and negative covenants under the Loan Agreement only if loans are outstanding under the Loan Agreement or if we have not reimbursed any drawing under a letter of credit issued under the Loan Agreement within five business days following the request of the Lender. Proceeds of loans made under the Loan Agreement may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We may prepay the loans under the Loan Agreement in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. Certain of our existing and future material domestic subsidiaries are required to guaranty our obligations under the Loan Agreement. (See “Note 13 – Debt” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on our revolving line of credit).
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  We do not have any off-balance sheet debt. At September 30, 2018, we did not have any relationships with any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we were engaged in such relationships. 
Prospective Capital Needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations as well as from the purchase of common stock through our employee stock purchase plan will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments, payment of dividends to our stockholders and repurchases of our common stock for at least the next 12 months. The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in December 2017 will allow us to repatriate our foreign cash for domestic needs without additional taxation. We may also seek to pursue additional financing or to raise additional funds by seeking an increase in our unsecured revolving line of credit under our Loan Agreement or selling equity or debt to the public or in private transactions from time to time. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock.
•payment of dividends to our stockholders;
•our levels of research and development and other operating costs;
•our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; 
•acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies; 
•the overall levels of sales of our products and gross profit margins;
•the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain;
•our relationships with suppliers and customers; and 
•the level of stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. 
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
See “Note 1 – Basis of presentation” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
At September 30, 2018, there were 1,134,247 shares available for repurchase under our repurchase plan approved on April 21, 2010. This repurchase plan does not have an expiration date. The following table provides information as of September 30, 2018 with respect to the shares of our common stock that we repurchased during the third quarter of 2018.
