 Item 2.  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  



Business Overview  



This section should be read in conjunction with the AstroNova condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.  



AstroNova is a multi-national enterprise that leverages its proprietary data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture, distribute and service a broad range of products that acquire, store, analyze and present data in multiple formats. The Company organizes its structure around a core set of competencies, including research and development, manufacturing, service, marketing and distribution. It markets and sells its products and services through the following two segments:  



   •    



Product Identification—offers product identification and digital label printer hardware, software, servicing contracts, parts and supplies. Supplies includes the media (substrate) and ink, toner, and thermal transfer ribbon used with the Company’s printers and the various parts used to maintain the printers.  



   •    



Test and Measurement (T&M)—offers a suite of products and services that acquire data from local and networked data streams and sensors as well as wired and wireless networks. The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats. The T&M segment also includes a line of aerospace printers that are used to print hard copies of data required for the safe and efficient operation of aircraft, including navigation maps, arrival and departure procedures, flight itineraries, weather maps, performance data, passenger data, and various air traffic control data. Aerospace products also include Ethernet switches which are used in military aircraft and vehicles to connect multiple computers or Ethernet devises.  



The Company markets and sells its products and services globally through a diverse distribution structure of direct sales personnel, manufacturers’ representatives and authorized dealers that deliver a full complement of branded products and services to customers in our respective markets.  



On September 28, 2017, AstroNova entered into an Asset Purchase and License Agreement with Honeywell International, Inc. (the “Honeywell Agreement”) pursuant to which it acquired the exclusive perpetual world-wide license to manufacture Honeywell’s narrow format flight deck printers for the Boeing 737 and Airbus 320 aircraft. Revenue from the sales of these printers is reported as part of our Test & Measurement segment beginning in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. Refer to Note 5, “Acquisitions,” in the condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.  



Results of Operations  



Three Months Ended July 28, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended July 29, 2017  



Revenue by segment and current quarter percentage change over prior year for the three months ended July 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017 were:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $33.8 million, representing a 23.0% increase compared to the previous year second quarter revenue of $27.5 million. Revenue through domestic channels for the current year second quarter was $20.0 million, an increase of 16.3% over the prior year’s second quarter. International revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $13.8 million, a 34.0% increase over the previous year’s second quarter and represents 41% of AstroNova’s second quarter’s revenue. Current year second quarter international revenue includes a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.3 million.  



Hardware revenue in the current quarter was $12.9 million, an increase compared to the prior year’s second quarter revenue of $8.6 million, primarily due to the increase in Test & Measurement hardware sales of aerospace printers related to the Honeywell Agreement entered into at the end of the third quarter of the prior year.  



Supplies revenue in the current quarter was $17.9 million, a 9.8% increase over the prior year’s second quarter supplies revenue of $16.3 million.  



25   



Table of Contents 



 The current quarter increase in supplies revenue compared to the second quarter of the prior year is primarily attributable to increases in revenue of both digital color printer supplies and label and tag products within the Product Identification segment, as well as an increase in sales of Test & Measurement supplies during the current quarter.  



Service and other revenues of $3.0 million in the current quarter increased 15.4% from prior year second quarter service and other revenues of $2.6 million, primarily due to an increase in customer demand for repair services in the Test & Measurement segment during the second quarter of the current year.  



Current year second quarter gross profit was $13.4 million, a 30.6% increase compared to prior year second quarter gross profit of $10.3 million. The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 39.6% reflects a 2.3 percentage point increase from the prior year second quarter gross profit margin of 37.3%. The higher gross profit and related profit margin for the current quarter compared to the prior year is primarily attributable to increased sales and favorable product mix.  



Operating expenses for the current quarter were $11.2 million, an increase compared to prior year second quarter operating expenses of $9.3 million. Specifically, selling and marketing expenses for the current quarter increased to $6.4 million compared to $5.3 million in the second quarter of the prior year due primarily to the amortization of the Company’s identifiable intangibles purchased in connection with the Honeywell Agreement, as well as an increase in compensation benefits. G&A expenses increased in the second quarter to $2.8 million compared to $2.3 million in the prior year second quarter. The increase is primarily due to an increase in employee benefits and outside service costs in the second quarter of the current year. R&D expenses were $2.0 million in the current quarter, compared to $1.7 million in the prior year second quarter with the increase attributable primarily to increased wages and benefits. The R&D spending as a percentage of revenue for the current quarter is 6.0% compared to 6.1% for the same period of the prior year.  



Other expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.5 million compared to $16 thousand of other income in the prior year second quarter. Current quarter other expense includes interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.3 million. Other income for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 includes foreign exchange gain of $59 thousand and investment income of $68 thousand, offset by interest expense on debt of $82 thousand and other expense of $30 thousand.  



The provision for federal, state and foreign income taxes for the second quarter of the current year was $0.5 million which includes an $82 thousand benefit related to windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock and reflects an effective tax rate of 27.8%. This compares to the prior year’s second quarter tax provision on income of $0.2 million which was impacted by updated projected forecasted income and updated lower foreign tax rates, as well as a $12 thousand benefit related to windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock and reflected an effective tax rate of 24.1%.  



The Company reported net income of $1.2 million or $0.17 per diluted share for the second quarter of the current year. On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year second quarter was $0.7 million or $0.11 per diluted share. Return on revenue was 3.5% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to 2.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2018.  



Six Months Ended July 28, 2018 vs. Six Months Ended July 29, 2017  



Revenue by product group and current quarter percentage change over prior year for the six months ended July 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017 were:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



26   



Table of Contents 



Revenue for the first six months of the current year was $65.3 million, representing a 25.7% increase compared to the previous year’s first six months of revenue of $51.9 million. Revenue through domestic channels for the first half of the current year was $39.2 million, an increase of 19.1% from the prior year. International revenue for the first six months of the current year was $26.1 million, a 37.4% increase from the previous year. The current year’s first six months international revenue included an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $1.1 million.  



Hardware revenue in the first six months of the current year was $24.9 million, a 56.6% increase compared to the prior year’s first six months of revenue of $15.9 million primarily due to the increase in Test & Measurement hardware sales of aerospace printers related to the Honeywell Agreement entered into at the end of the third quarter of the prior year.  



Supplies revenue in the first half of the current year was $34.6 million, representing an 11.3% increase over the prior year’s first six months revenue of $31.1 million. The current year increase in supplies revenue is due primarily to the increase in digital color printer supplies product revenue, as well as label and tag revenue in the Product Identification segment.  



Service and other revenues were $5.8 million in the first six months of the current year, an increase compared to the prior year’s first six months service and other revenues of $4.9 million, primarily due to an increase in customer demand for repair services in the Test & Measurement segment during the second quarter of the current year.  



Current year first six months gross profit was $25.5 million, a 30.4% increase from prior year’s first six months gross profit of $19.6 million. The Company’s gross profit margin of 39.1% in the current year reflects an increase from the prior year’s first six months gross profit margin of 37.7%. The higher gross profit and related margin for the current year compared to the prior year is primarily due to higher sales and favorable product mix.  



Operating expenses for the first six months of the fiscal year were $22.1 million, a 22.3% increase compared to prior year’s first six months operating expenses of $17.9 million. Selling and marketing expenses for the current year of $12.9 million increased 23.7% compared to the previous year’s first six months due primarily to the amortization of the Company’s identifiable intangibles purchased in connection with the Honeywell Agreement, as well as increases in bonus compensation and outside service fees. G&A expenses increased to $5.5 million in the first six months of the current year compared to prior year’s first six months G&A expenses of $4.2 million primarily due to an increase in bonus compensation and professional fees. R&D spending in the first six months of the current year was $3.7 million, a 12.5% increase compared to prior year’s first six months spending of $3.3 million. Current year spending on R&D represents 5.7% of revenue compared to the prior year’s first six months level of 6.4%.  



27   



Table of Contents 



Other expense during the first six months of the current year was $0.8 million compared to $33 thousand in the first six months of the previous year. Current year other expense includes interest expense on debt of $0.4 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.5 million, partially offset by investment and other income of $0.1 million. Other expense for fiscal 2018 included interest expense on debt of $0.1 million, partially offset by investment and other income of $0.1 million.  



The Company recognized $0.6 million of income tax expense for the first six months of the current fiscal year. The 24.1% effective tax rate in this period was directly impacted by a $112,000 tax benefit arising from windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock and a $78,000 tax benefit related to the expiration of the statute of limitations on a previously uncertain tax position. The prior year’s first six months income tax expense was $0.4 million. The 23.4% effective tax rate for the six months ended July 29, 2017 was impacted by updated projected forecasted income and updated lower foreign tax rates for the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, as well as a $71 thousand tax benefit related to the statute of limitations expiring on a previously uncertain tax position and a $27 thousand benefit arising from windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock.  



The Company reported net income of $2.0 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, for the first six months of the current year, which included $0.8 million of after-tax income, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates in the first quarter for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement. In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share. In the prior year’s first six months, the Company recognized net income of $1.2 million, or $0.17 per diluted share. Return on revenue was 3.1% for the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to 2.4% for the first six months of fiscal 2018.  



.  



28   



Table of Contents 



Segment Analysis  



The Company reports two segments: Product Identification and Test & Measurement (T&M) and evaluates segment performance based on the segment profit before corporate and financial administration expenses. Summarized below are the Revenue and Segment Operating Profit for each reporting segment:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Product Identification  



Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 4.5% in the second quarter of the current year, with revenue of $21.8 million compared to $20.8 million in the same period of the prior year. Hardware revenue increased 8.2% compared to prior year primarily due to an increase in demand for the new TrojanLabel printers products. The current year second quarter also received a solid contribution from the supplies product line revenue which increased 5.0% from the same period in the prior year. The current quarter increase in supplies revenue is due to the continued increase in demand for digital color printer supplies, which have experienced double-digit growth in the current year second quarter compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in sales of label and tag products for the current quarter also contributed to the increase in supplies revenue. The Product Identification segment current quarter segment operating profit was $2.2 million, reflecting a profit margin of 9.9%. This compares to the prior year’s second quarter segment profit of $2.6 million and related profit margin of 12.5%. The decline in Product Identification current year second quarter segment operating profit and margin is primarily due to product mix and higher manufacturing and operating expenses.  



Revenues from the Product Identification segment increased 5.7% to $41.7 million in the first six months of the current year from $39.5 million in the same period of the prior year, attributable to an increase in supplies revenue of 6.0% due to increased demand for digital color printer supplies products, as well as label and tag products. The increase in current year revenue also received a contribution from increased sales of TrojanLabel printers, which experienced double-digit growth in the current year. Product Identification current year segment operating profit of $3.8 million and profit margin of 9.2% declined from the prior year segment operating profit of $5.1 million and related profit margin of 12.7 %. The decrease in current year segment operating profit and margin is primarily due to product mix and higher manufacturing and operating expenses.  



29   



Table of Contents 



Test & Measurement—T&M  



Revenue from the T&M segment was $12.0 million for the second quarter of the current fiscal year, representing an 81.2% increase compared to revenue of $6.6 million for the same period in the prior year. The increase is due primarily to the increase in hardware sales of aerospace printers as a result of the Honeywell Agreement entered into at the end of the third quarter of the prior year. The T&M segment second quarter segment operating profit of $2.8 million and 23.4% profit margin compared to the prior year segment operating profit of $0.7 million and related operating margin of 9.9%. The increase in segment operating profit and related margin were due to higher sales revenue and favorable product mix.  



Revenue from the T&M segment was $23.6 million for the first six months of the current fiscal year, an 89.3% increase compared to sales of $12.5 million for the same period in the prior year. The increase is due primarily to the increase in hardware sales of aerospace printers as a result of the Honeywell Agreement entered into at the end of the third quarter of the prior year. The segment’s first six months operating profit of $5.1 million resulted in a 21.5% profit margin compared to prior year segment operating profit of $0.7 million and related operating margin of 5.8%. The higher segment operating profit and related profit margin for the current year is due to higher revenue and product mix.  



Financial Condition and Liquidity  



Overview  



Generally, our primary source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities. We may also utilize amounts available under our revolving credit facility, as described below, to supplement operating activities and to fund a portion of our capital expenditures, contractual contingent consideration obligations, and future acquisitions. We believe that our current level of cash and short-term financing capabilities along with future cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months.  



During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we converted our securities available for sale to cash. In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we drew $3.0 million on our revolving credit facility, of which $1.5 million was repaid during the quarter and $1.5 million remained outstanding as of July 28, 2018. Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the second quarter were $5.9 million and we have $8.5 million remaining available under our revolving credit facility.  



30   



Table of Contents 



Indebtedness  



On February 28, 2017, the Company and its wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS (together, the “Parties”), entered into a Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Lender”). The Credit Agreement provided for a term loan to ANI ApS in the principal amount of $9.2 million. The Credit Agreement also provided for a $10.0 million revolving credit facility available to the Company for general corporate purposes.  



In connection with the Honeywell Purchase and License Agreement, on September 28, 2017, the Parties entered into a First Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender. The First Amendment amended the existing Credit Agreement to permit the Honeywell Agreement and temporarily increased the amount available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility from $10.0 million to $15.0 million. The initial upfront payment of $14.6 million for the Honeywell Agreement was paid using borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility.  



On November 30, 2017, the Parties entered into a Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender. The Second Amendment provided for a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million, in addition to the revolving credit facility for the Company and the term loan previously borrowed by ANI ApS at the original closing under the Credit Agreement. The proceeds from the term loan were used to repay the entire $14.6 million principal balance of the revolving loans outstanding under the revolving credit facility. The principal amount of the revolving credit facility which had been temporarily increased to $15.0 million was reduced to $10.0 million effective upon closing of the Second Amendment and the maturity date was extended to November 30, 2022.  



On April 17, 2018, the Parties entered into a Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender. The Third Amendment provides that no “Immaterial Subsidiary” will be required to become a guarantor or securing party under (unless requested by the Lender during default) or have its equity pledged pursuant to the Credit Agreement. The Third Amendment defines “Immaterial Subsidiary” as any subsidiary of the Company with (a) consolidated total assets that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and (b) revenues that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries, as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter; provided that Immaterial Subsidiaries shall not account for, in the aggregate, more than 10% the of consolidated total assets or consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries.  



In connection with the Credit Agreement, AstroNova and ANI ApS entered into certain hedging arrangements with the Lender to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect of the term loans.  



Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S. Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Krone. Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) the LIBOR rate (or in the case of revolving credit loans denominated in a currency other than U.S. Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio. The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility at the rate of 0.25% per annum. Outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit line during fiscal 2019 bear interest at an annual rate of 5.5% and the Company has accrued $17.5 thousand on the outstanding obligation for the six months ended July 28, 2018.  



The obligations of ANI ApS in respect of the $9.2 million term loan are guaranteed by the Company and TrojanLabel. The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly-owned German subsidiary Astro-Med GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.  



The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.  



The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default.  



As of July 28, 2018, we believe the Company is in compliance with all of the covenants in the Credit Agreement.  



31   



Table of Contents 



Cash Flow  



The Company’s statements of cash flows for the six months ended July 28, 2018 and July 29, 2017 are included on page 6 of this report. Net cash used by operating activities was $2.6 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to net cash provided of $1.7 million for the same period of the previous year. The increase in net cash used by operations for the first six months of the current year is primarily due to payments of prior quarters accrued expenses to Honeywell under the TSA agreement, slower collections on accounts receivable related to Honeywell customers and the increase in inventory to support the transition of the production of printers to the West Warwick facility in accordance with the Honeywell TSA. The combination of these factors on accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and accrued expenses decreased cash by $7.6 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to a decrease of $1.6 million for the same period in fiscal 2018. The accounts receivable balance increased to $24.0 million at the end of the second quarter compared to $22.4 million at year end and the collection cycle increased to 59 days compared to 55 days at year end. The inventory balance was $28.4 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $27.6 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 125 days at the end of the current quarter from 124 days at the prior year end.  



The decreased cash and investment position at July 28, 2018, primarily resulted from increased cash used in operations as discussed above, principal payments of long-term debt of $2.9 million, dividends paid of $1.0 million and cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $0.8 million.  



The Company’s backlog increased 14.5% from year-end to $24.5 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2019.  



Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies  



There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, other than those which occur in the ordinary course of business.  



Critical Accounting Policies, Commitments and Certain Other Matters  



In the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, the Company’s most critical accounting policies and estimates upon which our financial status depends were identified as those relating to revenue recognition, warranty claims, bad debts, inventories, income taxes, long-lived assets, goodwill and share-based compensation. We considered the disclosure requirements of Financial Release (“FR”) 60 regarding critical accounting policies and FR-61 regarding liquidity and capital resources, certain trading activities and related party disclosures, and concluded that nothing materially changed during the quarter that would warrant further disclosure under these releases.  



Forward-Looking Statements  



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact, but rather reflect our current expectations concerning future events and results. We generally use the words “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “likely,” “continues,” “may,” “will,” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements, including those concerning our expectations, involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated include, but are not limited to (a) general economic, financial and business conditions; (b) declining demand in the test and measurement markets, especially defense and aerospace; (c) competition in the specialty printer industry; (d) ability to develop market acceptance of our products and effective design of customer required features; (e) competition in the data acquisition industry; (f) the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the results of operations; (g) the ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and realize benefits from divestitures; (h) the business abilities and judgment of personnel and changes in business strategy; (i) the efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products; (j) the launching of significant new products which could result in unanticipated expenses; (k) bankruptcy or other financial problems at major suppliers or customers that could cause disruptions in the Company’s supply chain or difficulty in collecting amounts owed by such customers; and (l) other risks included under “Item 1A-Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.  



32   



Table of Contents 



 Item 2.  



Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company made the following repurchases of its common stock:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (a)  



Employees of the Company delivered 6,076 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares. The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $19.65 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.  



 (b)  



A director of the Company delivered 2,555 shares of the Company’s common stock to satisfy the exercise price for 5,000 stock options exercised. The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $19.20 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.  



 (c)  



An employee of the Company delivered 2,048 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares. The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $18.25 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.  



 (d)  



Employees of the Company delivered 12,458 shares of the Company’s common stock to satisfy the exercise price for 19,075 stock options exercised. The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $18.38 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.  



34   



Table of Contents 



 Item 6.  



Exhibits  



  3A   Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company and all amendments thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3A to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2016).  



  3B   By-laws of the Company as amended to date (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3B to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008 (File no. 000-13200)).  



  4.2   AstroNova, Inc. 2018 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the SEC on May 4, 2018)  



  10.1   Form of Performance-based Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 4, 2018).  



  10.2   Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (time-based vesting) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 4, 2018).  



  10.3   Form of Incentive Stock Option (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 4, 2018).  



  10.4   Form of Non-statutory Stock Option (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 4, 2018).  



  10.5   Form of Non-statutory Stock Option (Non-employee Director) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 4, 2018).  



  10.6   Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 4, 2018).  



  10.7   Form of Non-employee Director Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 4, 2018).  



  31.1   Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  



  31.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  



  32.1   Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  



  32.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  



  101   The following materials from Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended July 28, 2018, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iv) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Filed electronically herein.  



35   



Table of Contents 



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



36
