PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1. Legal Proceedings  



There are no pending or threatened legal proceedings against the Company believed to be material to the financial position or results of operations of the Company.  



 Item 1A. Risk Factors  



In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, one should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future operating results. The risks described in our Annual Report on 10-K are not the only risks that could affect our business, as additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results as well as adversely affect the value of our common stock.  



There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company made the following repurchases of its common stock:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (a) Employees of the Company delivered 2,383 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares. The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $14.26 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.  



 (b) The Company’s Chief Executive Officer delivered 456 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares. The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $14.47 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.  



 (c) Employees of the Company delivered 630 shares of the Company’s common stock to satisfy the exercise price for 1,000 stock options exercised. The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $14.23 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.  



 (d) An employee of the Company delivered 4,925 shares of the Company’s common stock to satisfy the exercise price for 9,975 stock options exercised. The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $15.95 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.  



28  



Table of Contents 



 Item 6. Exhibits  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



29  



Table of Contents 



