PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1.  



Legal Proceedings  



There are no pending or threatened legal proceedings against the Company believed to be material to the financial position or results of operations of the Company.  



 Item 1A.  



Risk Factors  



In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, one should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future operating results. The risks described in our Annual Report on 10-K are not the only risks that could affect our business, as additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results as well as adversely affect the value of our common stock.  



There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.  



 Item 2.  



Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



During the second quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company made the following repurchases of its common stock:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (a)  



Executives of the Company delivered 4,420 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares. The shares delivered were valued at a weighted-average market value of $26.29 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. These transactions were not part of a publicly announced purchase plan or program.  



 (b)  



Executives of the Company delivered 9,917 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares. The shares delivered were valued at a weighted-average market value of $26.22 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. These transactions were not part of a publicly announced purchase plan or program.  



 Item 6.  



Exhibits  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



28   



Table of Contents 



 32.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  



 101   The following materials from Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended August 3, 2019, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iv) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity, (v) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Filed electronically herein.  



 *  



Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.  



29   



Table of Contents 



