 Item 2.  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  



Business Overview  



This section should be read in conjunction with the AstroNova condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.  



AstroNova is a multi-national enterprise that leverages its proprietary data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture, distribute and service a broad range of products that acquire, store, analyze and present data in multiple formats. The Company organizes its structure around a core set of competencies, including research and development, manufacturing, service, marketing and distribution. It markets and sells its products and services through the following two segments:  



   •    



Product Identification (PI) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.  



   •    



Test and Measurement (T&M) – offers a suite of products and services that acquire data from local and networked data streams and sensors as well as wired and wireless networks. The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats. The T&M segment also includes a line of aerospace printers that are used to print hard copies of data required for the safe and efficient operation of aircraft, including navigation maps, arrival and departure procedures, flight itineraries, weather maps, performance data, passenger data, and various air traffic control data. Aerospace products also include Ethernet switches, which are used in military aircraft and military vehicles to connect multiple computers or Ethernet devices.  



The Company markets and sells its products and services globally through a diverse distribution structure of direct sales personnel, manufacturers’ representatives and authorized dealers that deliver a full complement of branded products and services to customers in our respective markets. Our growth strategy centers on organic growth through product innovation made possible by research and development initiatives, as well as strategic acquisitions that fit into or complement existing core businesses.  



21   



Table of Contents 



Results of Operations  



Three Months Ended August 3, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended July 28, 2018  



Revenue by segment and current quarter percentage change over the prior year for the three months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018 were:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $33.5 million, representing a slight decrease compared to the previous year second quarter revenue of $33.8 million. Revenue through domestic channels for the second quarter of the current year was $20.6 million, an increase of 3.4% over the prior year’s second quarter. International revenue for the second quarter of the current year was $12.9 million, a 7.3% decrease over the previous year second quarter, and represents 38.3% of AstroNova’s second quarter revenue. Current year second quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.3 million.  



Hardware revenue in the current quarter was $12.4 million, a 3.7% decrease compared to the prior year’s second quarter revenue of $12.9 million. The decrease is attributable to both segments, as T&M hardware revenue decreased 3.0% and PI hardware revenue decreased 5.2% compared to the second quarter of the prior year. The decrease in hardware sales for the T&M segment is primarily due to a decline in the Aerospace printer product line sales as a result of the ripple effects of the Boeing 737 Max grounding, due in part to new aircraft shipment reductions as well as deferral of several retrofit printer upgrade orders so that those planes could remain in service. Although total hardware sales for the PI segment were down for the current quarter, the product launch of the new QL -300 provided a significant contribution to second quarter revenue and both Quick Label monochromatic printers and TrojanLabel T2-C printers experienced continued growth during the current quarter.  



Supplies revenue in the current quarter was $18.1 million, a 1.1% increase over prior year’s second quarter supplies revenue of $17.9 million. The increase in the current quarter supplies revenue as compared to the second quarter of the prior year is primarily attributable to the double-digit percentage increase in revenue of ink jet supplies, slightly offset by a decline in sales of transfer ribbon products within the Product Identification segment.  



Service and other revenues of $3.0 million in the current quarter remained consistent with the prior year as increases in parts and repair revenue in the Product Identification segment were offset by declines in repair revenue related to the aerospace printer product line in the T&M segment.  



Current year second quarter gross profit was $12.0 million, a 10.6% decrease compared to prior year second quarter gross profit of $13.4 million. The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 35.8% reflects a 3.8 percentage point decline from the prior year’s second quarter gross profit margin of 39.6%. The lower gross profit and related profit margin for the current quarter compared to the prior year’s second quarter is primarily attributable to decreased revenue and product mix.  



Operating expenses for the current quarter were $10.8 million, a 3.7% decrease compared to the prior year second quarter operating expenses of $11.2 million. Specifically, current quarter selling and marketing expenses of $6.4 million remained unchanged from the second quarter of the prior year, as increases in wages and commissions were offset by a decline in employee benefits and advertising expenses for the current year. Current quarter general and administrative expenses were $2.6 million, a 6.8% decrease compared to $2.8 million in the prior year’s second quarter, as the current quarter decrease in professional services, employee benefits and employee fees were tempered by increases in wages and outside services. Research and development (“R&D”) expenses were $1.8 million in the current quarter, a 12.0% decrease compared to $2.0 million in the prior year’s second quarter primarily due to decreases in wages and benefits. The R&D spending as a percentage of revenue for the current quarter is 5.3% compared to 6.0% for the same period of the prior year.  



Other expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.2 million compared to $0.5 million in the second quarter of the prior year. Current quarter other expense primarily includes interest expense on debt and the revolving line of credit of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million, which were partially offset by $0.1 million of other income. Other expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 consists primarily of interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.3 million.  



22   



Table of Contents 



The provision for federal, state and foreign income taxes for the second quarter of the current year is $29 thousand, resulting in an effective tax rate of 3.0%. This rate was impacted by a significant reduction in forecasted operating results for our fiscal 2020 as compared to operating results at the end of the first quarter 2020 and also reflects a benefit of $135 thousand related to windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock. This compares to the prior year’s second quarter tax provision of $0.5 million, which reflects a benefit of $82 thousand related to windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock and an effective tax rate of 13.9%.  



The Company reported net income of $1.0 million or $0.13 per diluted share for the second quarter of the current year. On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year’s second quarter was $1.2 million or $0.17 per diluted share. Return on revenue was 2.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.5% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019.  



Six Months Ended August 3, 2019 vs. Six Months Ended July 28, 2018  



Revenue by product group and current period percentage change over the prior year for the six months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018 were:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenue for the first six months of the current year was $69.6 million, representing a 6.7% increase compared to the previous year’s first six months of revenue of $65.3 million. Revenue through domestic channels for the first half of the current year was $42.6 million, an increase of 8.7% from prior year domestic revenue of $39.2 million. International revenue for the first six months of the current year was $27.0 million, a 3.5% increase from the previous year international revenue of $26.1 million. The current year’s first six months international revenue reflected an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.9 million.  



Hardware revenue in the first six months of the current year was $25.4 million, a 1.9% increase compared to the prior year’s first six months of revenue of $24.9 million. This increase is primarily due to the increase in sales of data acquisition recorders and aerospace printers in the T&M segment, slightly offset by a decline in hardware sales of aerospace printers related to the Honeywell Agreement entered into at the end of the third quarter of the prior year. Also contributing to the growth in hardware revenue for the current year were sales resulting from the new product launch of the Quick Label’s QL -300 printer as well as double-digit growth in sales of both Quick Label monochromatic printers and TrojanLabel’s T2-C printers in the Product Identification segment.  



Supplies revenue in the first half of the current year was $37.8 million, representing a 9.3% increase over the prior year’s first six months revenue of $34.6 million. The current year increase in supplies revenue is due primarily to the increase in inkjet printer supplies and labels sales, tempered by lower thermal film and electrophotographic supplies revenue in the Product Identification segment.  



Service and other revenues were $6.4 million in the first six months of the current year, an 11.5% increase compared to the prior year’s first six months service and other revenues of $5.8 million. The current year increase is primarily due to an increase in parts revenue related to the aerospace printer product line acquired from Honeywell in fiscal 2018. An increase in customer demand for parts in both the T&M and Product Identification segments as a result of the increase in installed based printers currently in the field also contributed to the current year growth in supplies revenue.  



Current year first six months gross profit was $26.2 million, a 2.8% increase from prior year’s first six months gross profit of $25.5 million. The Company’s gross profit margin of 37.6% in the current year reflects a decrease from the prior year’s first six months gross profit margin of 39.1%. The lower gross profit margin for the current year compared to the prior year is primarily due to higher period costs and product mix.  



Operating expenses for the first six months of the current fiscal year were $22.6 million, a 2.3% increase compared to prior year’s first six months operating expenses of $22.1 million. Selling and marketing expenses for the current year of $13.2 million increased 2.2% compared to the previous year’s first six months due primarily to an increase in wages, outside services, amortization of the Company’s identifiable intangibles purchased in connection with the Honeywell Agreement, as well as increases in travel expenses, slightly offset by lower commissions and benefits. General and Administrative (“G&A”) expenses increased 2.8% to $5.6 million in the first six months of the current year compared to the prior year’s first six months G&A expenses of $5.5 million primarily due to an increase in outside service fees, which was partially offset by a decrease in bonuses and share based compensation. R&D spending in the first six months of the current year was $3.8 million, a slight increase compared to the prior year’s first six months spending of $3.7 million. Current year spending on R&D represents 5.4% of revenue compared to the prior year’s first six months level of 5.7%.  



23   



Table of Contents 



Other expense during the first six months of the current year was $0.6 million compared to $0.8 million in the first six months of the previous year. Current year other expense includes interest expense of $0.4 million on the Company’s debt and revolving credit line and $0.3 million of foreign exchange loss, partially offset by investment and other income of $0.1 million. Other expense during the first six months of fiscal 2019 includes interest expense on debt of $0.4 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.5 million, partially offset by investment and other income of $0.1 million  



The Company recognized $0.4 million of income tax expense for the first six months of the current fiscal year, which reflects a $232,000 tax benefit arising from windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock and a $53,000 tax benefit related to the expiration of the statute of limitations on a previously uncertain tax position resulting in a 13.9% effective tax rate. The Company recognized $0.6 million of income tax expense for the first six months of the prior fiscal year. The 24.1% effective tax rate in that period was directly impacted by a $112,000 tax benefit arising from windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock and a $78,000 tax benefit related to the expiration of the statute of limitations on a previously uncertain tax position.  



The Company reported net income of $2.7 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, for the first six months of the current year. On a comparable basis, net income for the first six months of the prior year was $2.0 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, which included $0.8 million of after-tax income, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates in the prior year’s first quarter for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement. In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share. Return on revenue was 3.8% for the first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.1% for the first six months of fiscal 2019.  



Segment Analysis  



The Company reports two segments: Product Identification and Test & Measurement (T&M) and evaluates segment performance based on the segment profit before corporate and financial administration expenses. Summarized below are the Revenue and Segment Operating Profit for each reporting segment:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Product Identification  



Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 1.7% in the second quarter of the current year, with revenue of $22.1 million compared to $21.8 million in the same period of the prior year. The current quarter increase in revenue is primarily attributable to the increase in supplies revenue, as the Company’s installed base of printers continues to grow. Specifically, this includes inkjet supply revenue, which experienced double digit growth as compared to the same period in the prior year. Also contributing to the increase in revenue for the current quarter was a 10.6% increase in service and other revenue. Although the overall revenue increase was slightly tempered by lower sales in Product Identification’s hardware product line, the segment experienced a significant revenue contribution from the introduction of the new QL -300 printer, and both QuickLabel’s monochromatic printers and TrojanLabel’s T2-C printers experienced continued growth during the current quarter. Product Identification’s current quarter segment operating profit was $2.2 million, reflecting a profit margin of 10.0%. This compares to the prior year’s second quarter segment profit of $2.2 million and related profit margin of 9.9%. The slight increase in Product Identification current year second quarter segment operating margin is primarily due to higher sales and product mix.  



24   



Table of Contents 



Revenues from the Product Identification segment increased 9.6% to $45.7 million in the first six months of the current year from $41.7 million in the same period of the prior year. The current year increase is primarily attributable to an increase in supplies revenue of 11.4% due to increased demand for ink jet supplies, as well as label and tag products. Also contributing to the increase in revenue for the current year was a 14.8% increase in service and other revenue. Although hardware revenue in the PI segment remained constant compared to the prior year, the segment experienced a significant revenue contribution from the introduction of Quick Label’s new QL -300 printer, as well as double-digit growth in revenue from sales of both Quick Label’s monochromatic printers and TrojanLabel’s T2-C printers. This growth was slightly tempered by lower sales of the inkjet color printers within the product group. Product Identification current year segment operating profit was $5.1 million with a profit margin of 11.2%, compared to the prior year segment operating profit of $3.8 million and related profit margin of 9.2 %. The increase in current year segment operating profit and margin is primarily due to higher sales and product mix.  



Test & Measurement—T&M  



Revenue from the T&M segment was $11.3 million for the second quarter of the current fiscal year, representing a 5.9% decrease compared to revenue of $12.0 million for the same period in the prior year. The current quarter revenue decrease is due to the decline in the aerospace printer product line acquired from Honeywell in fiscal 2018 as a result of the ripple effects of the Boeing 737 Max grounding which was due in part to new aircraft shipment reductions as well as deferral of several retrofit printer upgrade orders so that those planes could remain in service. The decrease in current quarter revenue was tempered by an increase in T&M hardware sales from data recorders which experienced double digit growth. T&M’s second quarter segment operating profit was $1.6 million, reflecting a profit margin of 13.7%, a decrease compared to the prior year segment operating profit of $2.8 million and related operating margin of 23.4%. The decrease in segment operating profit and related margin were due to lower sales revenue and higher manufacturing and period costs.  



Revenue from the T&M segment was $23.9 million for the first six months of the current fiscal year, a 1.5% increase compared to sales of $23.6 million for the same period in the prior year. The increase in revenue for the first six months of the current year is primarily due to the increase in the hardware product line as a result of increased sales of T&M data recorders and aerospace printers, both experiencing double digit growth in the current year. Also contributing to the current year increase was the increase in parts revenue. The current year revenue increase was partially offset by the decline in the aerospace printer product line acquired from Honeywell as a result of the ripple effects of the Boeing 737 Max grounding which was due in part to new aircraft shipment reductions as well as deferral of several retrofit printer upgrade orders so that those planes could remain in service. The segment’s first six months operating profit of $4.1 million resulted in a 17.3% profit margin compared to the prior year segment operating profit of $5.1 million and related operating margin of 21.5%. The lower segment operating profit and related margin for the current year is due to higher manufacturing costs and operating expenses.  



Financial Condition and Liquidity  



Overview  



Generally, our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from operating activities and borrowings. From time to time, we may also utilize amounts available under our revolving credit facility, as described below, to supplement cash generated from operating activities and to fund a portion of our capital expenditures, contractual contingent consideration obligations, and future acquisitions. We believe that our current level of cash and short-term financing capabilities along with future cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months.  



Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the second quarter were $4.5 million. During the second quarter of the current year, the Company borrowed an additional $2.0 million on its revolving credit facility. As of August 3, 2019, under its existing revolving credit facility, the Company has an outstanding balance of $3.5 million and $6.5 million remaining available for borrowing.  



The Company’s backlog increased 12.9% from year-end to $22.3 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2020.  



Indebtedness  



In fiscal 2018, the Company and the Company’s wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS, entered into a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Lender”), which, as amended, provides for a secured credit facility consisting of a term loan to ANI ApS in the principal amount of $9.2 million and a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million. The Credit Agreement also provides for a $10.0 million revolving credit facility for the Company.  



Both term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR rate plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.  



25   



Table of Contents 



In connection with our entry into the Credit Agreement, ANI ApS entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect to the term loan. Under this combined arrangement, payments of principal and interest with respect to approximately $8.9 million of the principal of the term loan will be made in Danish Kroner, and interest on such principal amount will be payable at a fixed rate of 0.67% per annum for the entire term, subject only to potential changes based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio. Additionally, the Company entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk associated with its payments with respect to the $15.0 million term loan. Under this combined arrangement, interest will be payable at a fixed rate of 2.04% per annum for the entire term, plus an incremental margin of 1.0% to 1.5%, based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.  



Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S. Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Kroner. Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) the LIBOR rate (or, in the case of revolving credit loans denominated in a currency other than U.S. Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio. The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility at the rate of 0.25% per annum. Outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit line during fiscal 2020 bear interest at an average annual rate of 5.71% and the Company has paid $43,000 of interest expense for revolving credit line borrowings for the six months ended August 3, 2019.  



The obligations of ANI ApS in respect of the $9.2 million term loan are guaranteed by the Company and TrojanLabel ApS. The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly owned German subsidiary, AstroNova GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.  



The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default.  



The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.  



As of August 3, 2019, the Company believes it is in compliance with all of the covenants in the Credit Agreement.  



Cash Flow  



The Company’s statements of cash flows for the six months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018 are included on page 7 of this report. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.0 million for the first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to cash used by operating activities of $1.7 million for the same period of the previous year. The increase in net cash provided by operations for the first six months of the current year is primarily due to the increase in net income, and a decrease in cash used for working capital. The combination of changes in accounts receivable, inventory, income taxes payable accounts payable and accrued expenses decreased cash by $5.6 million for the first six months of fiscal 2020, compared to a decrease of $7.4 million for the same period in fiscal 2019.  



The accounts receivable balance decreased to $20.6 million at the end of the second quarter compared to $23.5 million at year end. The $2.9 million decrease in the accounts receivable balance from year end is directly related to the decrease in sales for the second quarter of the current year as compared to fourth quarter sales in fiscal 2019.  



The inventory balance was $36.9 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to $30.2 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 154 days at the end of the current quarter from 120 days at the prior year end. The current period increase in inventory and related days on hand is due to lower forecasted sales, as well as build up of inventory for new product launches in our Product Identification segment. Also contributing to the inventory increase were delayed shipments to customers in both the Product Identification and T&M segment.  



The net decreased cash position at August 3, 2019 primarily resulted from principal payments of long-term debt and the guaranteed royalty obligation of $2.8 million and $0.9 million, respectively; cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $1.5 million and dividends paid of $1.0 million, offset by increased cash provided by operations as discussed above and the current period borrowing on the Company’s existing revolving credit facility of $2.0 million.  



Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies  



There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019, other than those which occur in the ordinary course of business.  



Critical Accounting Policies, Commitments and Certain Other Matters  



The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and disclosure of commitments and contingencies at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We base these estimates and judgments on factors we believe to be relevant, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  



26   



Table of Contents 



 The process of determining significant estimates is fact-specific and takes into account factors such as historical experience, current and expected economic conditions, product mix, and in some cases, actuarial and appraisal techniques. We constantly re-evaluate these significant factors and make adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate.  



While we believe that the factors considered provide a meaningful basis for the accounting policies applied in the preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements, we cannot guarantee that our estimates and assumptions will be accurate. As the determination of these estimates requires the exercise of judgment, actual results may differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Except for the changes resulting from the adoption of the new lease accounting standard during the period, there have been no material changes to the application of critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. See Note 11, Leases, in Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, for an update on our lease accounting policy.  



Forward-Looking Statements  



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact, but rather reflect our current expectations concerning future events and results. We generally use the words “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “likely,” “continues,” “may,” “will,” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements, including those concerning our expectations, involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated include, but are not limited to (a) general economic, financial and business conditions; (b) declining demand in the test and measurement markets, especially defense and aerospace; (c) competition in the specialty printer industry; (d) ability to develop market acceptance of our products and effective design of customer required features; (e) competition in the data acquisition industry; (f) the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the results of operations; (g) the ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and realize benefits from divestitures; (h) the business abilities and judgment of personnel and changes in business strategy; (i) the efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products; (j) the launching of significant new products which could result in unanticipated expenses; (k) bankruptcy or other financial problems at major suppliers or customers that could cause disruptions in the Company’s supply chain or difficulty in collecting amounts owed by such customers; (l) any technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology; (m) a material security breach or cybersecurity attack impacting our business and our relationship with customers and (n) other risks included under “Item 1A-Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.  



 Item 2.  



Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



During the second quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company made the following repurchases of its common stock:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (a)  



Executives of the Company delivered 4,420 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares. The shares delivered were valued at a weighted-average market value of $26.29 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. These transactions were not part of a publicly announced purchase plan or program.  



 (b)  



Executives of the Company delivered 9,917 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares. The shares delivered were valued at a weighted-average market value of $26.22 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet. These transactions were not part of a publicly announced purchase plan or program.  



 Item 6.  



Exhibits  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



28   



Table of Contents 



 32.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  



 101   The following materials from Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended August 3, 2019, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iv) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity, (v) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Filed electronically herein.  



 *  



Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.  



29   



Table of Contents 



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



30
