 Item 2.  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  



Business Overview  



This section should be read in conjunction with the AstroNova condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.  



AstroNova is a multi-national enterprise that leverages its proprietary data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture, distribute and service a broad range of products that acquire, store, analyze and present data in multiple formats. The Company organizes its structure around a core set of competencies, including research and development, manufacturing, service, marketing and distribution. It markets and sells its products and services through the following two segments:  



   •    



Product Identification (“PI”) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.  



   •    



Test and Measurement (“T&M”) – offers a suite of products and services that acquire data from local and networked data streams and sensors as well as wired and wireless networks. The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats. The T&M segment also includes a line of aerospace printers that are used to print hard copies of data required for the safe and efficient operation of aircraft, including navigation maps, arrival and departure procedures, flight itineraries, weather maps, performance data, passenger data, and various air traffic control data. Aerospace products also include Ethernet switches, which are used in military aircraft and military vehicles to connect multiple computers or Ethernet devices.  



The Company markets and sells its products and services globally through a diverse distribution structure of direct sales personnel, manufacturers’ representatives and authorized dealers that deliver a full complement of branded products and services to customers in our respective markets. Our growth strategy centers on organic growth through product innovation made possible by research and development initiatives, as well as strategic acquisitions that fit into or complement existing core businesses.  



24   



Table of Contents 



Results of Operations  



Three Months Ended November 2, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended October 27, 2018  



Revenue by segment and current quarter percentage change over the prior year for the three months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018 were:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $33.3 million, representing a decrease compared to the previous year third quarter revenue of $34.2 million. Revenue through domestic channels for the third quarter of the current year was $21.8 million, an increase of 1.3% over the prior year’s third quarter. International revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $11.5 million, representing 34.5% of AstroNova’s third quarter revenue and reflects a 9.2% decrease over the previous year third quarter primarily as a result of weaker demand from a few customers in Asia in the Product Identification segment and a global slowdown in demand for certain aircraft models in the T&M segment. Current year third quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.3 million.  



Hardware revenue in the current quarter was $12.2 million, a 7.1% decrease compared to the prior year’s third quarter revenue of $13.1 million. The current quarter decrease in hardware revenue is primarily due to the decline in aerospace printer sales related to the Honeywell product lines within the T&M segment. This decline is a result of the ripple effects of the Boeing 737 Max grounding, due in part to reductions in new aircraft shipments, as well as the delay of retrofit printer upgrade orders for earlier 737 models so that those planes could remain in service. The decline of aerospace printer hardware sales in the T&M segment was partly offset by an increase in sales of data acquisition recorders and increased sales for the ToughSwitch product line. The current quarter overall decline in hardware sales was also tempered by an increase in PI segment hardware sales as the product launch of the new QL -300 provided a significant contribution to third quarter revenue, as did sales of TrojanLabel printers, which experienced continued growth during the current quarter.  



Supplies revenue in the current quarter was $17.7 million, a 2.5% decrease over prior year’s third quarter supplies revenue of $18.1 million. The decrease in the current quarter supplies revenue as compared to the third quarter of the prior year is primarily attributable to a decrease in revenue of QuickLabel product supplies in the Product Identification segment. The decrease in supplies revenue for the current quarter was slightly offset by an increase in TrojanLabel product supplies revenue within the Product Identification segment.  



Service and other revenue was $3.5 million in the current quarter, a 17.0% increase over the prior year revenue of $3.0 million. The current quarter increase is primarily due to an increase in parts and repair revenue related to the AstroNova aerospace printer product lines in the T&M segment.  



Current year third quarter gross profit was $12.3 million, an 11.6% decrease compared to prior year third quarter gross profit of $13.9 million. The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 36.9% reflects a 380 basis point decline from the prior year’s third quarter gross profit margin of 40.7%. The lower gross profit and related profit margin for the current quarter compared to the prior year’s third quarter is primarily attributable to decreased revenue and unfavorable product mix in both the PI and T&M segments.  



Operating expenses for the current quarter were $11.9 million, a 2.6% increase compared to the prior year third quarter operating expenses of $11.5 million. Specifically, current quarter selling and marketing expenses were $6.9 million, a 5.4% increase compared to $6.6 million in the third quarter of the prior year, as the increases in wages, travel, entertainment and trade show expenditures were offset by a decline in employee benefits for the current year. Both general and administrative expenses of $2.8 million and research and development (“R&D”) expenses of $2.1 million remained unchanged from the third quarter of the prior year. R&D spending as a percentage of revenue for the current quarter of 6.2% remained consistent with the same period of the prior year.  



Other expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.2 million compared to $0.5 million in the third quarter of the prior year. Current quarter other expense primarily includes interest expense on the Company’s debt and revolving line of credit of $0.2 million. Other expense for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and net foreign exchange loss of $0.3 million.  



25   



Table of Contents 



The benefit for federal, state and foreign income taxes for the third quarter of the current year is $0.2 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of negative 118.2%. This rate was impacted by a reduction in internally forecasted operating results for our fiscal 2020 as compared to operating results at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2020, a $0.3 million tax benefit related to the reversal of previously uncertain tax positions due to the finalization of an IRS audit and an $18,000 tax benefit arising from windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock. This compares to the prior year’s third quarter tax provision of $0.4 million, which reflected a benefit of $0.1 million related to windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock and an effective tax rate of 22.3%.  



The Company reported net income of $0.5 million or $0.06 per diluted share for the third quarter of the current year. On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year’s third quarter was $1.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share. Return on revenue was 1.4% for the third quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 4.1% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019.  



Nine Months Ended November 2, 2019 vs. Nine Months Ended October 27, 2018  



Revenue by product group and current period percentage change over the prior year for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018 were:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $103.0 million, representing a 3.5% increase compared to the previous year’s first nine months of revenue of $99.5 million. Revenue through domestic channels for the first nine months of the current year was $64.5 million, an increase of 6.1% from prior year domestic revenue of $60.8 million. International revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $38.5 million, a slight decrease from the previous year international revenue of $38.7 million. The current year’s first nine months of international revenue reflected an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $1.2 million.  



Hardware revenue in the first nine months of the current year was $37.5 million, a 1.3% decrease compared to the prior year’s first nine months of revenue of $38.0 million. The decrease in hardware sales is primarily related to the decline in the aerospace printer product line related to the Honeywell Agreement in the T&M segment. This decline is a result of the ripple effects of the Boeing 737 Max grounding, due in part to reductions in new aircraft shipments, as well as lower retrofit printer upgrade orders for older 737 models so that those planes could remain in service. This decline of hardware sales in the T&M segment was slightly offset by an increase in sales of data acquisition recorders and other aerospace printers. The overall decline in hardware revenue for the current year was also tempered by an increase in PI segment hardware sales, as the product launch of the new QL -300 provided a significant contribution to current year revenue as did sales of the TrojanLabel printers which also experienced continued growth during the current year.  



Supplies revenue in the first nine months of the current year was $55.5 million, representing a 5.3% increase over the prior year’s first nine months revenue of $52.7 million. The current year increase in supplies revenue is due primarily to the increase in inkjet printer supplies and label sales, tempered by lower thermal film and electrophotographic supplies revenue in the Product Identification segment.  



Service and other revenues were $10.0 million in the first nine months of the current year, a 13.4% increase compared to the prior year’s first nine months service and other revenues of $8.8 million. The current year increase is primarily due to an increase in repairs and parts revenues in the AstroNova aerospace product line and an increase in customer demand for parts in the data recorder product line. Also contributing to the current year increase were sales of parts in the Product Identification segment as a result of the increase in the installed base of printers currently in the field. Current year first nine months gross profit was $38.5 million, a 2.3% decrease from prior year’s first nine months gross profit of $39.4 million. The Company’s gross profit margin of 37.4% in the current year reflects a decrease from the prior year’s first nine months gross profit margin of 39.6%. The lower gross profit margin for the current year compared to the prior year is primarily due to higher period costs and adverse product mix.  



Operating expenses for the first nine months of the current fiscal year were $34.4 million, a 2.4% increase compared to the prior year’s first nine months operating expenses of $33.6 million. Selling and marketing expenses for the current year of $20.1 million increased 3.3% compared to the previous year’s first nine months due primarily to an increase in wages, outside services, and travel expenses which were slightly offset by lower commissions and benefits. General and Administrative (“G&A”) expenses for the first nine months of the current year were $8.4 million, a 1.8% increase compared to the prior year’s first nine months G&A expenses of $8.3 million. The increase in G&A expenses in the current year was primarily due to an increase in outside service fees and corporate related expenditures, partially offset by a decrease in employee benefits. R&D spending in the first nine months of the current year was $5.9 million, a slight increase compared to the prior year’s first nine months spending of $5.8 million. Current year spending on R&D represents 5.7% of revenue compared to the prior year’s first nine months level of 5.9%.  



26   



Table of Contents 



Other expense during the first nine months of the current year was $0.8 million compared to $1.3 million in the first nine months of the previous year. Current year other expense includes interest expense of $0.6 million on the Company’s debt and revolving credit line and $0.3 million of net foreign exchange loss which was partially offset by investment and other income of $0.1 million. Other expense during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 includes interest expense on debt of $0.6 million and net foreign exchange loss of $0.8 million which was partially offset by investment and other income of $0.1 million  



The Company recognized $0.2 million of income tax expense for the first nine months of the current fiscal year, which includes a $0.4 million tax benefit related to the reversal of previously uncertain tax positions due to the finalization of an IRS audit and the expiration of statute of limitations on previously uncertain tax positions and a $0.3 million tax benefit arising from windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock which resulted in a 5.5% effective tax rate. The Company recognized $1.0 million of income tax expense for the first nine months of the prior fiscal year. The 23.4% effective tax rate in that period was directly impacted by a $0.2 million tax benefit arising from windfall tax benefits related to the Company’s stock and a $0.1 million tax benefit related to the expiration of the statute of limitations on a previously uncertain tax position.  



The Company reported net income of $3.1 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, for the first nine months of the current year. On a comparable basis, net income for the first nine months of the prior year was $3.4 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, which included $0.8 million of after-tax income, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates in the prior year’s first quarter for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement. In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share. Return on revenue was 3.0% for the first nine months of fiscal 2020 compared to 3.4% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019.  



Segment Analysis  



The Company reports two segments: Product Identification and Test & Measurement and evaluates segment performance based on the segment profit before corporate and financial administration expenses. Summarized below are the Revenue and Segment Operating Profit for each reporting segment:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Product Identification  



Total current quarter revenue from the Product Identification segment of $21.7 million was comparable to revenue for the same period of the prior year. Current quarter revenue includes increases in hardware and supplies revenue within the TrojanLabel product group, as well as a significant contribution from the introduction of the new QL -300 printer in the QuickLabel product group, slightly offset by declines in some of the Company’s inkjet printer product lines. Product Identification’s current quarter segment operating profit was $1.9 million, reflecting a profit margin of 8.6%. This compares to the prior year’s third quarter segment profit of $2.0 million and related profit margin of 9.3%. The slight decrease in Product Identification current year third quarter operating segment operating margin is primarily due to higher operating expenses and adverse product mix.  



27   



Table of Contents 



Revenues from the Product Identification segment increased 6.4% to $67.5 million in the first nine months of the current year from $63.4 million in the same period of the prior year. The current year increase is primarily attributable to strong demand for ink jet supplies in the first quarter from Asian customers, which subsequently declined. Also contributing to the increase in revenue for the current year was an increase in service and other revenue. Hardware revenue in the PI segment remained fairly constant compared to the prior year; however the segment did experience a significant revenue contribution from the introduction of QuickLabel’s new QL -300 printer, as well as double-digit growth in revenue from sales of both QuickLabel’s monochromatic printers and TrojanLabel’s T2-C printers. This growth was tempered by lower sales of other inkjet color printers within the QuickLabel product group. Product Identification current year segment operating profit was $7.0 million with a profit margin of 10.4%, compared to the prior year segment operating profit of $5.8 million and related profit margin of 9.2 %. The increase in current year segment operating profit and margin is primarily due to higher sales and product mix early in the year.  



Test & Measurement—T&M  



Revenue from the T&M segment was $11.6 million for the third quarter of the current fiscal year, representing a 7.5% decrease compared to revenue of $12.5 million for the same period in the prior year. The current quarter revenue decrease is due to the decline in the aerospace printer product line acquired from Honeywell in fiscal 2018 as a result of the ripple effects of the Boeing 737 Max grounding which resulted in part to new aircraft shipment reductions as well as delays of several retrofit printer upgrade orders for earlier 737 models so that those planes could remain in service. T&M’s third quarter segment operating profit was $1.4 million, reflecting a profit margin of 12.1%, a decrease compared to the prior year segment operating profit of $3.2 million and related operating margin of 25.4%. The decrease in segment operating profit and related margin were due to lower sales revenue, adverse product mix and higher manufacturing and period costs.  



Revenue from the T&M segment was $35.5 million for the first nine months of the current fiscal year, a 1.7% decrease compared to sales of $36.1 million for the same period in the prior year. The decrease in revenue for the first nine months of the current year is also primarily due to the decline in the aerospace printer product line acquired from Honeywell as a result of the impact of the Boeing 737 Max grounding. The decline was slightly offset by an increase in the hardware product line as a result of increased sales of T&M data recorders and AstroNova aerospace printers, both experiencing double digit growth in the current year, and an increase in parts and repair revenue. The segment’s first nine months operating profit of $5.5 million resulted in a 15.6% profit margin compared to the prior year segment operating profit of $8.3 million and related operating margin of 22.9%. The lower segment operating profit and related margin for the current year is due to lower revenue, adverse product mix and higher manufacturing costs and operating expenses.  



Financial Condition and Liquidity  



Overview  



Generally, our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility, as described below, which we use to supplement cash generated from operating activities and to fund a portion of our capital expenditures, contractual contingent consideration obligations, and future acquisitions. We believe that our current level of cash and short-term financing capabilities along with future cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months.  



Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the third quarter were $4.5 million. During the third quarter of the current year, the Company borrowed an additional $3.0 million on its revolving credit facility. At November 2, 2019, under its existing revolving credit facility, the Company had an outstanding balance of $6.5 million and $3.5 million remaining available for borrowing.  



The Company’s backlog decreased 18.8% from year-end to $20.8 million at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2020.  



28   



Table of Contents 



Indebtedness  



In fiscal 2018, the Company and the Company’s wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS, entered into a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Lender”), which, as amended through November 2, 2019 (the “Credit Agreement”), provides for a secured credit facility consisting of a term loan to ANI ApS in the principal amount of $9.2 million and a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million. The Credit Agreement also provides for a $10.0 million revolving credit facility for the Company.  



Both term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR rate plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.  



In connection with our entry into the Credit Agreement, ANI ApS entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect to the term loan. Under this combined arrangement, payments of principal and interest with respect to approximately $8.9 million of the principal of the term loan will be made in Danish Kroner, and interest on such principal amount will be payable at a fixed rate of 0.67% per annum for the entire term, subject only to potential changes based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio. Additionally, the Company entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk associated with its payments with respect to the $15.0 million term loan. Under this combined arrangement, interest will be payable at a fixed rate of 2.04% per annum for the entire term, plus an incremental margin of 1.0% to 1.5%, based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.  



Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S. Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Kroner. Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) the LIBOR rate (or, in the case of revolving credit loans denominated in a currency other than U.S. Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio. The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility at the rate of 0.25% per annum. Outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit line during fiscal 2020 bear interest at a weighted average annual rate of 5.26% and the Company has paid $93,000 of interest expense for revolving credit line borrowings for the nine months ended November 2, 2019.  



The obligations of ANI ApS in respect of the $9.2 million term loan are guaranteed by the Company and TrojanLabel ApS. The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly owned German subsidiary, AstroNova GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.  



The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default.  



29   



Table of Contents 



The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.  



On December 9, 2019, the Company, ANI ApS, TrojanLabel ApS and the Lender, entered into a Fourth Amendment (the “Fourth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. Refer to Part II, Item 5 Other Information for further details on the Fourth Amendment and resulting changes to the terms of the Credit Agreement.  



The Company believes it is in compliance with all of the covenants in the amended Credit Agreement.  



Cash Flow  



The Company’s statements of cash flows for the nine months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018 are included on page 8 of this report. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2020 compared to $2.5 million for the same period of the previous year. The decrease in net cash provided by operations for the first nine months of the current year is primarily due to the decrease in net income, and an increase in cash used for working capital. The combination of changes in accounts receivable, inventory, income taxes, accounts payable and accrued expenses negatively impacted cash by $8.4 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2020, compared to $6.8 million for the same period in fiscal 2019.  



The accounts receivable balance decreased to $22.1 million at the end of the third quarter compared to $23.5 million at year end. The $1.4 million decrease in the accounts receivable balance from year end is directly related to the decrease in sales for the third quarter of the current year as compared to third quarter sales in fiscal 2019.  



The inventory balance was $35.6 million at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to $30.2 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 152 days at the end of the current quarter from 120 days at the prior year end. The current period increase in inventory and related days on hand is due to lower forecasted sales, as well as a buildup of inventory for new product launches in our Product Identification segment. Also contributing to the inventory increase were delayed shipments to customers in the Product Identification segment and last time buy parts and safety stock increases in the T&M segment.  



The net decreased cash position at November 2, 2019 primarily resulted from principal payments of long-term debt and the guaranteed royalty obligation of $4.0 million and $1.4 million, respectively; cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $2.4 million and dividends paid of $1.5 million, offset by increased cash provided by current period borrowing on the Company’s existing revolving credit facility of $5.0 million.  



Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies  



There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019, other than those which occur in the ordinary course of business.  



Critical Accounting Policies, Commitments and Certain Other Matters  



The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and disclosure of commitments and contingencies at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We base these estimates and judgments on factors we believe to be relevant, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  



30   



Table of Contents 



The process of determining significant estimates is fact-specific and takes into account factors such as historical experience, current and expected economic conditions, product mix, and in some cases, actuarial and appraisal techniques. We constantly re-evaluate these significant factors and make adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate.  



While we believe that the factors considered provide a meaningful basis for the accounting policies applied in the preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements, we cannot guarantee that our estimates and assumptions will be accurate. As the determination of these estimates requires the exercise of judgment, actual results may differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Except for the changes resulting from the adoption of the new lease accounting standard during the period, there have been no material changes to the application of critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. See Note 11, Leases, in Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, for an update on our lease accounting policy.  



Forward-Looking Statements  



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact, but rather reflect our current expectations concerning future events and results. We generally use the words “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “likely,” “continues,” “may,” “will,” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements, including those concerning our expectations, involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated include, but are not limited to (a) general economic, financial and business conditions; (b) declining demand in the test and measurement markets, especially defense and aerospace; (c) competition in the specialty printer industry; (d) ability to develop market acceptance of our products and effective design of customer required features; (e) competition in the data acquisition industry; (f) the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the results of operations; (g) the ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and realize benefits from divestitures; (h) the business abilities and judgment of personnel and changes in business strategy; (i) the efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products; (j) the launching of significant new products which could result in unanticipated expenses; (k) bankruptcy or other financial problems at major suppliers or customers that could cause disruptions in the Company’s supply chain or difficulty in collecting amounts owed by such customers; (l) any technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology; (m) a material security breach or cybersecurity attack impacting our business and our relationship with customers and (n) other risks included under “Item 1A-Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.  



